And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them , and he served them : and they continued a season in ward .
And when David enquired of the Lord , he said , Thou shalt not go up ; but fetch a compass behind them , and come upon them over against the mulberry trees .
When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good , he said unto Joseph , I also was in my dream , and , behold , I had three white baskets on my head :
Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men , such as fear God , men of truth , hating covetousness ; and place such over them , to be rulers of thousands , and rulers of hundreds , rulers of fifties , and rulers of tens :
And he hardened Pharaoh ' s heart , that he hearkened not unto them ; as the Lord had said .
And the Lord God called unto Adam , and said unto him , Where art thou ?
Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians , and how I bare you on eagles ' wings , and brought you unto myself .
But the servants of David had smitten of Benjamin , and of Abner ' s men , so that three hundred and threescore men died .
And it came to pass , when Joseph was come unto his brethren , that they stript Joseph out of his coat , his coat of many colours that was on him ;
And say , How have I hated instruction , and my heart despised reproof ;
And they called unto Lot , and said unto him , Where are the men which came in to thee this night ? bring them out unto us , that we may know them .
As the whirlwind passeth , so is the wicked no more : but the righteous is an everlasting foundation .
And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground : and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand , and on their left .
Article 30
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine , and knew not whence it was : (but the servants which drew the water knew ; ) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom ,
And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food , and that it was pleasant to the eyes , and a tree to be desired to make one wise , she took of the fruit thereof , and did eat , and gave also unto her husband with her ; and he did eat .
Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn , and to restore every man ' s money into his sack , and to give them provision for the way : and thus did he unto them .
And this day shall be unto you for a memorial ; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations ; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever .
Article 10
And he put the handmaids and their children foremost , and Leah and her children after , and Rachel and Joseph hindermost .
And Er , Judah ' s firstborn , was wicked in the sight of the Lord ; and the Lord slew him .
Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes , both we and our land ? buy us and our land for bread , and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh : and give us seed , that we may live , and not die , that the land be not desolate .
And the flood was forty days upon the earth ; and the waters increased , and bare up the ark , and it was lift up above the earth .
And she said , I pray you , let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves : so she came , and hath continued even from the morning until now , that she tarried a little in the house .
And Noah begat three sons , Shem , Ham , and Japheth .
Whoso is simple , let him turn in hither : and as for him that wanteth understanding , she saith to him ,
Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters : and they came and drew water , and filled the troughs to water their father ' s flock .
Who appeared in glory , and spake of his decease which he should accomplish at Jerusalem .
The officers answered , Never man spake like this man .
And he discerned him not , because his hands were hairy , as his brother Esau ' s hands : so he blessed him .
And the men were afraid , because they were brought into Joseph ' s house ; and they said , Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in ; that he may seek occasion against us , and fall upon us , and take us for bondmen , and our asses .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , saying ,
And again he said , Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God ?
And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years : and he died .
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth .
And Jesus answered and said unto them , For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept .
And there were set there six waterpots of stone , after the manner of the purifying of the Jews , containing two or three firkins apiece .
Go , and gather the elders of Israel together , and say unto them , The Lord God of your fathers , the God of Abraham , of Isaac , and of Jacob , appeared unto me , saying , I have surely visited you , and seen that which is done to you in Egypt :
And the frogs shall come up both on thee , and upon thy people , and upon all thy servants .
 Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy , Thy sins be forgiven thee ; or to say , Arise , and take up thy bed , and walk ?
Saying , The Son of man must suffer many things , and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes , and be slain , and be raised the third day .
And the Lord said unto Samuel , Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee : for they have not rejected thee , but they have rejected me , that I should not reign over them .
And Eleazar Aaron ' s son took him one of the daughters of Putiel to wife ; and she bare him Phinehas : these are the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families .
 And they shall come from the east , and from the west , and from the north , and from the south , and shall sit down in the kingdom of God .
Then Joseph said unto the people , Behold , I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh : lo , here is seed for you , and ye shall sow the land .
And he looked this way and that way , and when he saw that there was no man , he slew the Egyptian , and hid him in the sand .
And the evening and the morning were the fourth day .
Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread , and in the seventh day shall be a feast to the Lord .
And Samuel answered Saul , and said , I am the seer : go up before me unto the high place ; for ye shall eat with me to day , and to morrow I will let thee go , and will tell thee all that is in thine heart .
And it shall come to pass in the increase , that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh , and four parts shall be your own , for seed of the field , and for your food , and for them of your households , and for food for your little ones .
This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee , and manifested forth his glory ; and his disciples believed on him .
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration , without distinction of any kind , such as race , colour , sex , language , religion , political or other opinion , national or social origin , property , birth or other status . Furthermore , no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political , jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs , whether it be independent , trust , non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty .
Then Jesus said unto them , My time is not yet come : but your time is alway ready .
When thou liest down , thou shalt not be afraid : yea , thou shalt lie down , and thy sleep shall be sweet .
Behold now , thy servant hath found grace in thy sight , and thou hast magnified thy mercy , which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life ; and I cannot escape to the mountain , lest some evil take me , and I die :
And they arose early : and it came to pass about the spring of the day , that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house , saying , Up , that I may send thee away . And Saul arose , and they went out both of them , he and Samuel , abroad .
And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came : for the famine was in the land of Canaan .
And God said moreover unto Moses , Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel , The Lord God of your fathers , the God of Abraham , the God of Isaac , and the God of Jacob , hath sent me unto you : this is my name for ever , and this is my memorial unto all generations .
 But I receive not testimony from man : but these things I say , that ye might be saved .
 Sell that ye have , and give alms ; provide yourselves bags which wax not old , a treasure in the heavens that faileth not , where no thief approacheth , neither moth corrupteth .
And Samuel said , Gather all Israel to Mizpah , and I will pray for you unto the Lord .
For these two years hath the famine been in the land : and yet there are five years , in the which there shall neither be earing nor harvest .
 Let your loins be girded about , and your lights burning ;
 And ye have not his word abiding in you : for whom he hath sent , him ye believe not .
And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn , he espied his money ; for , behold , it was in his sack ' s mouth .
Then Jethro , Moses ' father in law , took Zipporah , Moses ' wife , after he had sent her back ,
And , behold , a man of the company cried out , saying , Master , I beseech thee , look upon my son : for he is mine only child .
 And I will say to my soul , Soul , thou hast much goods laid up for many years ; take thine ease , eat , drink , and be merry .
And it came to pass , when he was come near to enter into Egypt , that he said unto Sarai his wife , Behold now , I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon :
In the mean time , when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people , insomuch that they trode one upon another , he began to say unto his disciples first of all , Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees , which is hypocrisy .
 All that the Father giveth me shall come to me ; and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out .
And Joseph died , and all his brethren , and all that generation .
 How can ye believe , which receive honour one of another , and seek not the honour that cometh from God only ?
And the man brought the men into Joseph ' s house , and gave them water , and they washed their feet ; and he gave their asses provender .
 (She is loud and stubborn ; her feet abide not in her house :
Now thou art commanded , this do ye ; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones , and for your wives , and bring your father , and come .
And Adam called his wife ' s name Eve ; because she was the mother of all living .
And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them , he said to the ruler of his house , Bring these men home , and slay , and make ready ; for these men shall dine with me at noon .
No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence , under national or international law , at the time when it was committed . Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed .
And one of the company said unto him , Master , speak to my brother , that he divide the inheritance with me .
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof , then your eyes shall be opened , and ye shall be as gods , knowing good and evil .
And when Moses ' father in law saw all that he did to the people , he said , What is this thing that thou doest to the people ? why sittest thou thyself alone , and all the people stand by thee from morning unto even ?
He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame : and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot .
And his sister stood afar off , to wit what would be done to him .
Now therefore hearken unto me , O ye children : for blessed are they that keep my ways .
And if the household be too little for the lamb , let him and his neighbour next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls ; every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb .
Why saidst thou , She is my sister ? so I might have taken her to me to wife : now therefore behold thy wife , take her , and go thy way .
Article 11
And he had a son , whose name was Saul , a choice young man , and a goodly : and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he : from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people .
 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father : there is one that accuseth you , even Moses , in whom ye trust .
And I , behold , I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians , and they shall follow them : and I will get me honour upon Pharaoh , and upon all his host , upon his chariots , and upon his horsemen .
And Pharaoh ' s cup was in my hand : and I took the grapes , and pressed them into Pharaoh ' s cup , and I gave the cup into Pharaoh ' s hand .
When Jesus saw him lie , and knew that he had been now a long time in that case , he saith unto him , Wilt thou be made whole ?
Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him , Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders , but eat bread with unwashen hands ?
Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father .
And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about , saying , Take heed to yourselves , that ye go not up into the mount , or touch the border of it : whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to death :
For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver , and the gain thereof than fine gold .
And the firstborn bare a son , and called his name Moab : the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day .
Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate , and said , Tell me , I pray thee , where the seer ' s house is .
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon , nor any that come into Dagon ' s house , tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day .
But Jesus answered them , My Father worketh hitherto , and I work .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Stretch out thine hand over the sea , that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians , upon their chariots , and upon their horsemen .
So when they continued asking him , he lifted up himself , and said unto them , He that is without sin among you , let him first cast a stone at her .
Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee ; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field ;
Then came Amalek , and fought with Israel in Rephidim .
And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day , that Pharaoh should have the fifth part ; except the land of the priests only , which became not Pharaoh ' s .
And Moses said unto the people , Fear ye not , stand still , and see the salvation of the Lord , which he will shew to you to day : for the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day , ye shall see them again no more for ever .
And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph , and said to him , In my dream , behold , a vine was before me ;
And the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite , Rechab and Baanah , went , and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ish–bosheth , who lay on a bed at noon .
And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew .
The Lord recompense thy work , and a full reward be given thee of the Lord God of Israel , under whose wings thou art come to trust .
For he said , Because the Lord hath sworn that the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation .
And he saith unto them , Draw out now , and bear unto the governor of the feast . And they bare it .
And he said , God forbid that I should do so : but the man in whose hand the cup is found , he shall be my servant ; and as for you , get you up in peace unto your father .
This day came ye out in the month Abib .
The Jews then murmured at him , because he said , I am the bread which came down from heaven .
For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb , and her mouth is smoother than oil :
For the goodman is not at home , he is gone a long journey :
And David came to Baal–perazim , and David smote them there , and said , The Lord hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me , as the breach of waters . Therefore he called the name of that place Baal–perazim .
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel , saying , If ye do return unto the Lord with all your hearts , then put away the strange gods and Ashtoreth from among you , and prepare your hearts unto the Lord , and serve him only : and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines .
He shall die without instruction ; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray .
And when she could not longer hide him , she took for him an ark of bulrushes , and daubed it with slime and with pitch , and put the child therein ; and she laid it in the flags by the river ' s brink .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Write this for a memorial in a book , and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua : for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven .
And her two sons ; of which the name of the one was Gershom ; for he said , I have been an alien in a strange land :
Article 23
And Zilpah Leah ' s maid bare Jacob a son .
And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground , both man , and cattle , and the creeping things , and the fowl of the heaven ; and they were destroyed from the earth : and Noah only remained alive , and they that were with him in the ark .
And it came to pass , when she travailed , that the one put out his hand : and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread , saying , This came out first .
And he said unto them , What would ye that I should do for you ?
And they made their father drink wine that night : and the firstborn went in , and lay with her father ; and he perceived not when she lay down , nor when she arose .
And it came to pass , when Pharaoh would hardly let us go , that the Lord slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt , both the firstborn of man , and the firstborn of beast : therefore I sacrifice to the Lord all that openeth the matrix , being males ; but all the firstborn of my children I redeem .
And Rachel said , God hath judged me , and hath also heard my voice , and hath given me a son : therefore called she his name Dan .
And the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram ' s wife .
And Moses spake before the Lord , saying , Behold , the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me ; how then shall Pharaoh hear me , who am of uncircumcised lips ?
Article 8
And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings , he took Peter and John and James , and went up into a mountain to pray .
And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee ; and the mother of Jesus was there :
So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir .
And Pharaoh rose up in the night , he , and all his servants , and all the Egyptians ; and there was a great cry in Egypt ; for there was not a house where there was not one dead .
If thou be wise , thou shalt be wise for thyself : but if thou scornest , thou alone shalt bear it .
And Abner said to him , Turn thee aside to thy right hand or to thy left , and lay thee hold on one of the young men , and take thee his armour . But Asahel would not turn aside from following of him .
The Lord then answered him , and said , Thou hypocrite , doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall , and lead him away to watering ?
And they shall take of the blood , and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper door post of the houses , wherein they shall eat it .
Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground , and opened every man his sack .
His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself , and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins .
 If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision , that the law of Moses should not be broken ; are ye angry at me , because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day ?
And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press , they uncovered the roof where he was : and when they had broken it up , they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay .
And it came to pass on the morrow , that the firstborn said unto the younger , Behold , I lay yesternight with my father : let us make him drink wine this night also ; and go thou in , and lie with him , that we may preserve seed of our father .
Article 27
And when the children of Israel saw it , they said one to another , It is manna : for they wist not what it was . And Moses said unto them , This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat .
And said unto him , Behold , thou art old , and thy sons walk not in thy ways : now make us a king to judge us like all the nations .
I will pass through all thy flock to day , removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle , and all the brown cattle among the sheep , and the spotted and speckled among the goats : and of such shall be my hire .
And he came near , and kissed him : and he smelled the smell of his raiment , and blessed him , and said , See , the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the Lord hath blessed :
And he called the name of the place Massah , and Meribah , because of the chiding of the children of Israel , and because they tempted the Lord , saying , Is the Lord among us , or not ?
Jesus saith unto them , Fill the waterpots with water . And they filled them up to the brim .
And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna : and it was like coriander seed , white ; and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey .
And Jesus answering said unto them , They that are whole need not a physician ; but they that are sick .
And it came to pass , as he was alone praying , his disciples were with him : and he asked them , saying , Whom say the people that I am ?
And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of : The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits , the breadth of it fifty cubits , and the height of it thirty cubits .
Take also your brother , and arise , go again unto the man :
And the man increased exceedingly , and had much cattle , and maidservants , and menservants , and camels , and asses .
And he will take your menservants , and your maidservants , and your goodliest young men , and your asses , and put them to his work .
 For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven , and giveth life unto the world .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , saying ,
And when she had opened it , she saw the child : and , behold , the babe wept . And she had compassion on him , and said , This is one of the Hebrews ' children .
Now when Pharaoh heard this thing , he sought to slay Moses . But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh , and dwelt in the land of Midian : and he sat down by a well .
And Jacob took him rods of green poplar , and of the hazel and chesnut tree ; and pilled white strakes in them , and made the white appear which was in the rods .
 And that servant , which knew his lord ' s will , and prepared not himself , neither did according to his will , shall be beaten with many stripes .
Hath not the scripture said , That Christ cometh of the seed of David , and out of the town of Bethlehem , where David was ?
Length of days is in her right hand ; and in her left hand riches and honour .
And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt , in the country of Goshen ; and they had possessions therein , and grew , and multiplied exceedingly .
And she bare him a son , and he called his name Gershom : for he said , I have been a stranger in a strange land .
As the Lord commanded Moses , so Aaron laid it up before the Testimony , to be kept .
 Strive to enter in at the strait gate : for many , I say unto you , will seek to enter in , and shall not be able .
And Moses spake unto Aaron , Say unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , Come near before the Lord : for he hath heard your murmurings .
The wise in heart will receive commandments : but a prating fool shall fall .
But he knoweth not that the dead are there ; and that her guests are in the depths of hell .
And our father said , Go again , and buy us a little food .
And he arose from thence , and cometh into the coasts of Judaea by the farther side of Jordan : and the people resort unto him again ; and , as he was wont , he taught them again .
Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe ; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times ; and be thou ravished always with her love .
 Which of you convinceth me of sin ? And if I say the truth , why do ye not believe me ?
Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly ; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy .
 For as the Father raiseth up the dead , and quickeneth them ; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go in unto Pharaoh : for I have hardened his heart , and the heart of his servants , that I might shew these my signs before him :
 Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition , which ye have delivered : and many such like things do ye .
And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands , and upon the smooth of his neck :
Until thy brother ' s anger turn away from thee , and he forget that which thou hast done to him : then I will send , and fetch thee from thence : why should I be deprived also of you both in one day ?
 But rather seek ye the kingdom of God ; and all these things shall be added unto you .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Rise up early in the morning , and stand before Pharaoh ; lo , he cometh forth to the water ; and say unto him , Thus saith the Lord , Let my people go , that they may serve me .
 So is he that layeth up treasure for himself , and is not rich toward God .
And God hearkened unto Leah , and she conceived , and bare Jacob the fifth son .
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering , the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel : but the Lord thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines , and discomfited them ; and they were smitten before Israel .
And they said unto him , We can . And Jesus said unto them , Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of ; and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized :
And Rebekah said to Isaac , I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth : if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth , such as these which are of the daughters of the land , what good shall my life do me ?
And Judah said unto Israel his father , Send the lad with me , and we will arise and go ; that we may live , and not die , both we , and thou , and also our little ones .
And entered into a ship , and went over the sea toward Capernaum . And it was now dark , and Jesus was not come to them .
No one may be compelled to belong to an association .
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property .
And there went a man of the house of Levi , and took to wife a daughter of Levi .
 Verily , verily , I say unto you , He that heareth my word , and believeth on him that sent me , hath everlasting life , and shall not come into condemnation ; but is passed from death unto life .
My son , keep my words , and lay up my commandments with thee .
And the Pharisees said unto him , Behold , why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful ?
We are all one man ' s sons ; we are true men , thy servants are no spies .
Article 15
 And when they bring you unto the synagogues , and unto magistrates , and powers , take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall answer , or what ye shall say :
When therefore he was risen from the dead , his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them ; and they believed the scripture , and the word which Jesus had said .
And he told it to his father , and to his brethren : and his father rebuked him , and said unto him , What is this dream that thou hast dreamed ? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth ?
And Moses said unto the people , Remember this day , in which ye came out from Egypt , out of the house of bondage ; for by strength of hand the Lord brought you out from this place : there shall no leavened bread be eaten .
 I am that bread of life .
And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel , At even , then ye shall know that the Lord hath brought you out from the land of Egypt :
And Joseph saw Ephraim ' s children of the third generation : the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph ' s knees .
Nevertheless David took the strong hold of Zion : the same is the city of David .
And in the morning , then ye shall see the glory of the Lord ; for that he heareth your murmurings against the Lord : and what are we , that ye murmur against us ?
And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke , because the Lord descended upon it in fire : and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace , and the whole mount quaked greatly .
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth ; and all the high hills , that were under the whole heaven , were covered .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Yet will I bring one plague more upon Pharaoh , and upon Egypt ; afterwards he will let you go hence : when he shall let you go , he shall surely thrust you out hence altogether .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go down , charge the people , lest they break through unto the Lord to gaze , and many of them perish .
And when they had this done , they inclosed a great multitude of fishes : and their net brake .
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee , and shall hang thee on a tree ; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee .
Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden , to till the ground from whence he was taken .
But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples , saying , Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners ?
And he spake also a parable unto them ; No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon an old ; if otherwise , then both the new maketh a rent , and the piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the old .
We be twelve brethren , sons of our father ; one is not , and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan .
And he said unto her , For this saying go thy way ; the devil is gone out of thy daughter .
I was set up from everlasting , from the beginning , or ever the earth was .
Article 21
Then the Lord said unto Moses , Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh : for with a strong hand shall he let them go , and with a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land .
And the earth was without form , and void ; and darkness was upon the face of the deep . And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters .
And Moses said , This shall be , when the Lord shall give you in the evening flesh to eat , and in the morning bread to the full ; for that the Lord heareth your murmurings which ye murmur against him : and what are we ? your murmurings are not against us , but against the Lord .
Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family , including food , clothing , housing and medical care and necessary social services , and the right to security in the event of unemployment , sickness , disability , widowhood , old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control .
And Reuben answered them , saying , Spake I not unto you , saying , Do not sin against the child ; and ye would not hear ? therefore , behold , also his blood is required .
And said unto them , Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me : and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me : for he that is least among you all , the same shall be great .
And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are : and when I see the blood , I will pass over you , and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you , when I smite the land of Egypt .
And Herod said , John have I beheaded : but who is this , of whom I hear such things ? And he desired to see him .
Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover , in the feast day , many believed in his name , when they saw the miracles which he did .
And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father , we told him the words of my lord .
And he fell upon his brother Benjamin ' s neck , and wept ; and Benjamin wept upon his neck .
And Joseph returned into Egypt , he , and his brethren , and all that went up with him to bury his father , after he had buried his father .
Everyone has the right to a nationality .
For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan , and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah , which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite , before Mamre .
And he erected there an altar , and called it El–elohe–Israel .
And both Jesus was called , and his disciples , to the marriage .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go on before the people , and take with thee of the elders of Israel ; and thy rod , wherewith thou smotest the river , take in thine hand , and go .
And the Lord appeared unto him , and said , Go not down into Egypt ; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of :
Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught , saying , Ye both know me , and ye know whence I am : and I am not come of myself , but he that sent me is true , whom ye know not .
Howbeit we know this man whence he is : but when Christ cometh , no man knoweth whence he is .
And the Lord said to Samuel , Hearken unto their voice , and make them a king . And Samuel said unto the men of Israel , Go ye every man unto his city .
And he said unto him , Man , who made me a judge or a divider over you ?
And he said unto them , The sabbath was made for man , and not man for the sabbath :
And he answered and said unto him , Master , all these have I observed from my youth .
But Jesus called them to him , and saith unto them , Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them ; and their great ones exercise authority upon them .
And God created great whales , and every living creature that moveth , which the waters brought forth abundantly , after their kind , and every winged fowl after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
And they shall fill thy houses , and the houses of all thy servants , and the houses of all the Egyptians ; which neither thy fathers , nor thy fathers ' fathers have seen , since the day that they were upon the earth unto this day . And he turned himself , and went out from Pharaoh .
And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast : and they come and say unto him , Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast , but thy disciples fast not ?
They are all plain to him that understandeth , and right to them that find knowledge .
And the evening and the morning were the fifth day .
And a great multitude followed him , because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased .
And , behold , I , even I , do bring a flood of waters upon the earth , to destroy all flesh , wherein is the breath of life , from under heaven ; and every thing that is in the earth shall die .
Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah .
And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years , and he begat Enoch :
And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh , and they did so as the Lord had commanded : and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh , and before his servants , and it became a serpent .
 Ye sent unto John , and he bare witness unto the truth .
But when Jesus perceived their thoughts , he answering said unto them , What reason ye in your hearts ?
Reprove not a scorner , lest he hate thee : rebuke a wise man , and he will love thee .
And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years , and begat sons and daughters :
Then they willingly received him into the ship : and immediately the ship was at the land whither they went .
They answered him , We be Abraham ' s seed , and were never in bondage to any man : how sayest thou , Ye shall be made free ?
And God made the beast of the earth after his kind , and cattle after their kind , and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
And he went through the cities and villages , teaching , and journeying toward Jerusalem .
And now the Lord shew kindness and truth unto you : and I also will requite you this kindness , because ye have done this thing .
 Also I say unto you , Whosoever shall confess me before men , him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God :
And all the people saw the thunderings , and the lightnings , and the noise of the trumpet , and the mountain smoking : and when the people saw it , they removed , and stood afar off .
When he gave to the sea his decree , that the waters should not pass his commandment : when he appointed the foundations of the earth :
Article 29
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image , or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above , or that is in the earth beneath , or that is in the water under the earth :
Come , let us make our father drink wine , and we will lie with him , that we may preserve seed of our father .
And James and John , the sons of Zebedee , come unto him , saying , Master , we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire .
And again , departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon , he came unto the sea of Galilee , through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis .
And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph ' s house ; for he was yet there : and they fell before him on the ground .
Male and female created he them ; and blessed them , and called their name Adam , in the day when they were created .
And the officers of the children of Israel , which Pharaoh ' s taskmasters had set over them , were beaten , and demanded , Wherefore have ye not fulfilled your task in making brick both yesterday and to day , as heretofore ?
And the Lord said unto Moses , How long refuse ye to keep my commandments and my laws ?
And all flesh died that moved upon the earth , both of fowl , and of cattle , and of beast , and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth , and every man :
And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth .
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph , Say unto thy brethren , This do ye ; lade your beasts , and go , get you unto the land of Canaan ;
For the Pharisees , and all the Jews , except they wash their hands oft , eat not , holding the tradition of the elders .
And it came to pass , while the ark abode in Kirjath–jearim , that the time was long ; for it was twenty years : and all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord .
And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning ; and that which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire .
And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven , and will give unto thy seed all these countries ; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed ;
After this he went down to Capernaum , he , and his mother , and his brethren , and his disciples : and they continued there not many days .
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years : and he died .
Let people serve thee , and nations bow down to thee : be lord over thy brethren , and let thy mother ' s sons bow down to thee : cursed be every one that curseth thee , and blessed be he that blesseth thee .
Thus saith the Lord , In this thou shalt know that I am the Lord : behold , I will smite with the rod that is in mine hand upon the waters which are in the river , and they shall be turned to blood .
Keep my commandments , and live ; and my law as the apple of thine eye .
And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh : and he said unto them , Go , serve the Lord your God : but who are they that shall go ?
And they shall eat the flesh in that night , roast with fire , and unleavened bread ; and with bitter herbs they shall eat it .
Bind them upon thy fingers , write them upon the table of thine heart .
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal , in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him .
A proud look , a lying tongue , and hands that shed innocent blood ,
And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord , and dwelt in the land of Nod , on the east of Eden .
Then said the Jews among themselves , Whither will he go , that we shall not find him ? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles , and teach the Gentiles ?
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations ; Gershon , and Kohath , and Merari : and the years of the life of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven years .
And Moses was content to dwell with the man : and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter .
And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers , against the chief of the butlers , and against the chief of the bakers .
And the sons of Izhar ; Korah , and Nepheg , and Zichri .
And it came to pass , as Aaron spake unto the whole congregation of the children of Israel , that they looked toward the wilderness , and , behold , the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud .
The righteous shall never be removed : but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth .
One law shall be to him that is homeborn , and unto the stranger that sojourneth among you . 50Thus did all the children of Israel ; as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron , so did they . 51And it came to pass the selfsame day , that the Lord did bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies .
My son , despise not the chastening of the Lord ; neither be weary of his correction :
And , behold , there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years , and was bowed together , and could in no wise lift up herself .
And he passed over before them , and bowed himself to the ground seven times , until he came near to his brother .
And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons for ever .
Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron . And it came to pass , as the ark of God came to Ekron , that the Ekronites cried out , saying , They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us , to slay us and our people .
And afterwards she bare a daughter , and called her name Dinah .
And the Lord said unto him , Away , get thee down , and thou shalt come up , thou , and Aaron with thee : but let not the priests and the people break through to come up unto the Lord , lest he break forth upon them .
For the froward is abomination to the Lord : but his secret is with the righteous .
Speak now in the ears of the people , and let every man borrow of his neighbour , and every woman of her neighbour , jewels of silver , and jewels of gold .
 For I came down from heaven , not to do mine own will , but the will of him that sent me .
And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon : for they heard that they should eat bread there .
And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought forth out of Egypt , for it was not leavened ; because they were thrust out of Egypt , and could not tarry , neither had they prepared for themselves any victual .
And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush : and he looked , and , behold , the bush burned with fire , and the bush was not consumed .
And Samuel told him every whit , and hid nothing from him . And he said , It is the Lord : let him do what seemeth him good .
And Esau said unto his father , Hast thou but one blessing , my father ? bless me , even me also , O my father . And Esau lifted up his voice , and wept .
And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father : and the physicians embalmed Israel .
Of fowls also of the air by sevens , the male and the female ; to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth .
I have perfumed my bed with myrrh , aloes , and cinnamon .
And they shall hearken to thy voice : and thou shalt come , thou and the elders of Israel , unto the king of Egypt , and ye shall say unto him , The Lord God of the Hebrews hath met with us : and now let us go , we beseech thee , three days ' journey into the wilderness , that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God .
And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery ; and when they had set her in the midst ,
Be not afraid of sudden fear , neither of the desolation of the wicked , when it cometh .
And Isaac departed thence , and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar , and dwelt there .
Hearken unto me now therefore , O ye children , and attend to the words of my mouth .
And Jacob said , Nay , I pray thee , if now I have found grace in thy sight , then receive my present at my hand : for therefore I have seen thy face , as though I had seen the face of God , and thou wast pleased with me .
Behold , thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth ; and from thy face shall I be hid ; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth ; and it shall come to pass , that every one that findeth me shall slay me .
 And he thought within himself , saying , What shall I do , because I have no room where to bestow my fruits ?
For jealousy is the rage of a man : therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance .
And Rachel said , With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister , and I have prevailed : and she called his name Naphtali .
 But if ye believe not his writings , how shall ye believe my words ?
Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance . All children , whether born in or out of wedlock , shall enjoy the same social protection .
And Adam knew his wife again ; and she bare a son , and called his name Seth : For God , said she , hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel , whom Cain slew .
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah , and pursued the Philistines , and smote them , until they came under Beth–car .
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years : and he begat sons and daughters :
And they said , Thou hast saved our lives : let us find grace in the sight of my lord , and we will be Pharaoh ' s servants .
And Aaron took him Elisheba , daughter of Amminadab , sister of Nahshon , to wife ; and she bare him Nadab , and Abihu , Eleazar , and Ithamar .
Then answered Jesus and said unto them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , The Son can do nothing of himself , but what he seeth the Father do : for what things soever he doeth , these also doeth the Son likewise .
Hear instruction , and be wise , and refuse it not .
 Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness , and are dead . 50 This is the bread which cometh down from heaven , that a man may eat thereof , and not die . 51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven : if any man eat of this bread , he shall live for ever : and the bread that I will give is my flesh , which I will give for the life of the world . 52The Jews therefore strove among themselves , saying , How can this man give us his flesh to eat ? 53Then Jesus said unto them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man , and drink his blood , ye have no life in you . 54 Whoso eateth my flesh , and drinketh my blood , hath eternal life ; and I will raise him up at the last day . 55 For my flesh is meat indeed , and my blood is drink indeed . 56 He that eateth my flesh , and drinketh my blood , dwelleth in me , and I in him . 57 As the living Father hath sent me , and I live by the Father : so he that eateth me , even he shall live by me . 58 This is that bread which came down from heaven : not as your fathers did eat manna , and are dead : he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever . 59These things said he in the synagogue , as he taught in Capernaum . 60Many therefore of his disciples , when they had heard this , said , This is an hard saying ; who can hear it ? 61When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it , he said unto them , Doth this offend you ? 62 What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before ? 63 It is the spirit that quickeneth ; the flesh profiteth nothing : the words that I speak unto you , they are spirit , and they are life . 64 But there are some of you that believe not . For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not , and who should betray him . 65And he said , Therefore said I unto you , that no man can come unto me , except it were given unto him of my Father . 66From that time many of his disciples went back , and walked no more with him . 67Then said Jesus unto the twelve , Will ye also go away ? 68Then Simon Peter answered him , Lord , to whom shall we go ? thou hast the words of eternal life . 69And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ , the Son of the living God . 70Jesus answered them , Have not I chosen you twelve , and one of you is a devil ? 71He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon : for he it was that should betray him , being one of the twelve .
Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific , literary or artistic production of which he is the author .
And when they saw him afar off , even before he came near unto them , they conspired against him to slay him .
A foolish woman is clamorous : she is simple , and knoweth nothing .
For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night , and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt , both man and beast ; and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment : I am the Lord .
And he knew it , and said , It is my son ' s coat ; an evil beast hath devoured him ; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces .
Wherefore say unto the children of Israel , I am the Lord , and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians , and I will rid you out of their bondage , and I will redeem you with a stretched out arm , and with great judgments :
And Moses said , Thou hast spoken well , I will see thy face again no more .
When he had said these words unto them , he abode still in Galilee .
When thou tillest the ground , it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength ; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth .
And Noah did according unto all that the Lord commanded him .
And God said , Behold , I have given you every herb bearing seed , which is upon the face of all the earth , and every tree , in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for meat .
And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years , and begat sons and daughters :
And the eyes of them both were opened , and they knew that they were naked ; and they sewed fig leaves together , and made themselves aprons .
The Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim .
And it came to pass , when Moses held up his hand , that Israel prevailed : and when he let down his hand , Amalek prevailed .
 But from the beginning of the creation God made them male and female .
That thou mayest walk in the way of good men , and keep the paths of the righteous .
If ye be true men , let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison : go ye , carry corn for the famine of your houses :
 For what is a man advantaged , if he gain the whole world , and lose himself , or be cast away ?
And Jesus said unto them , I am the bread of life : he that cometh to me shall never hunger ; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst .
My son , let not them depart from thine eyes : keep sound wisdom and discretion :
Improvement is family income increasing.
And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus , and sought to slay him , because he had done these things on the sabbath day .
For , behold , we were binding sheaves in the field , and , lo , my sheaf arose , and also stood upright ; and , behold , your sheaves stood round about , and made obeisance to my sheaf .
And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest , and found mandrakes in the field , and brought them unto his mother Leah . Then Rachel said to Leah , Give me , I pray thee , of thy son ' s mandrakes .
And there will I nourish thee ; for yet there are five years of famine ; lest thou , and thy household , and all that thou hast , come to poverty .
 I receive not honour from men .
But every man ' s servant that is bought for money , when thou hast circumcised him , then shall he eat thereof .
And the taskmasters hasted them , saying , Fulfil your works , your daily tasks , as when there was straw .
And Judah said , What shall we say unto my lord ? what shall we speak ? or how shall we clear ourselves ? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants : behold , we are my lord ' s servants , both we , and he also with whom the cup is found .
And it came to pass , whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive , that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters , that they might conceive among the rods .
The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him ; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him .
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel , from Ekron even unto Gath ; and the coasts thereof did Israel deliver out of the hands of the Philistines . And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites .
 But and if that servant say in his heart , My lord delayeth his coming ; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens , and to eat and drink , and to be drunken ;
When one told me , saying , Behold , Saul is dead , thinking to have brought good tidings , I took hold of him , and slew him in Ziklag , who thought that I would have given him a reward for his tidings :
And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long , and waxed louder and louder , Moses spake , and God answered him by a voice .
Honour thy father and thy mother : that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee .
And his return was to Ramah ; for there was his house ; and there he judged Israel ; and there he built an altar unto the Lord .
Jesus answered them , and said , My doctrine is not mine , but his that sent me .
And Joab said , As God liveth , unless thou hadst spoken , surely then in the morning the people had gone up every one from following his brother .
Then the handmaidens came near , they and their children , and they bowed themselves .
And it came to pass , when God destroyed the cities of the plain , that God remembered Abraham , and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow , when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt .
 Marvel not at this : for the hour is coming , in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice ,
 Because it entereth not into his heart , but into the belly , and goeth out into the draught , purging all meats ?
And the fish that was in the river died ; and the river stank , and the Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river ; and there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt .
And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son , saying , Behold , I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother , saying ,
And Joseph answered and said , This is the interpretation thereof : The three baskets are three days :
Unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skins , and clothed them .
For my mouth shall speak truth ; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips .
And we said unto my lord , We have a father , an old man , and a child of his old age , a little one ; and his brother is dead , and he alone is left of his mother , and his father loveth him .
Eat not of it raw , nor sodden at all with water , but roast with fire ; his head with his legs , and with the purtenance thereof .
Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth , thou art taken with the words of thy mouth .
David was thirty years old when he began to reign , and he reigned forty years .
And when they had brought their ships to land , they forsook all , and followed him .
And he said , Now also let it be according unto your words : he with whom it is found shall be my servant ; and ye shall be blameless .
Everyone , as a member of society , has the right to social security and is entitled to realization , through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State , of the economic , social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality .
And Moses said , Let no man leave of it till the morning .
So Moses went down unto the people , and spake unto them .
And they said unto him , Wherefore saith my lord these words ? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing :
And he said unto the people , Be ready against the third day : come not at your wives .
And they were astonished out of measure , saying among themselves , Who then can be saved ?
And the flocks conceived before the rods , and brought forth cattle ringstraked , speckled , and spotted .
And I will stretch out my hand , and smite Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in the midst thereof : and after that he will let you go .
An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations , feet that be swift in running to mischief ,
And the Lord said unto Moses , Stretch out thine hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts , that they may come up upon the land of Egypt , and eat every herb of the land , even all that the hail hath left .
Leave me alone!
But they understood not this saying , and it was hid from them , that they perceived it not : and they feared to ask him of that saying .
Passing through the street near her corner ; and he went the way to her house ,
Thou shalt not steal .
In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months : and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah .
 All these evil things come from within , and defile the man .
And they set on for him by himself , and for them by themselves , and for the Egyptians , which did eat with him , by themselves : because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews ; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians .
And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me , and keep my commandments .
And when they had found him on the other side of the sea , they said unto him , Rabbi , when camest thou hither ?
Come now therefore , and let us slay him , and cast him into some pit , and we will say , Some evil beast hath devoured him : and we shall see what will become of his dreams .
And Laban said , Behold , I would it might be according to thy word .
And when the inhabitants of the land , the Canaanites , saw the mourning in the floor of Atad , they said , This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians : wherefore the name of it was called Abel–mizraim , which is beyond Jordan .
And Esau said , Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me . And he said , What needeth it ? let me find grace in the sight of my lord .
And she yet again conceived , and bare a son ; and called his name Shelah : and he was at Chezib , when she bare him .
Tomorrow I will clean the bathroom.
And Jacob lifted up his eyes , and looked , and , behold , Esau came , and with him four hundred men . And he divided the children unto Leah , and unto Rachel , and unto the two handmaids .
And Jacob blessed Pharaoh , and went out from before Pharaoh .
Haste thee , escape thither ; for I cannot do any thing till thou be come thither . Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar .
And told him , saying , Joseph is yet alive , and he is governor over all the land of Egypt . And Jacob ' s heart fainted , for he believed them not .
And the men of Kirjath–jearim came , and fetched up the ark of the Lord , and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill , and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the Lord .
 But ye say , If a man shall say to his father or mother , It is Corban , that is to say , a gift , by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me ; he shall be free .
 Let these sayings sink down into your ears : for the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men .
And he commanded the steward of his house , saying , Fill the men ' s sacks with food , as much as they can carry , and put every man ' s money in his sack ' s mouth .
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing : but righteousness delivereth from death .
Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen ; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit , and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver : and they brought Joseph into Egypt .
Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him : and he was perplexed , because that it was said of some , that John was risen from the dead ;
But he said unto them , Give ye them to eat . And they said , We have no more but five loaves and two fishes ; except we should go and buy meat for all this people .
And David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem , after he was come from Hebron : and there were yet sons and daughters born to David .
And he dreamed yet another dream , and told it his brethren , and said , Behold , I have dreamed a dream more ; and , behold , the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me .
The labour of the righteous tendeth to life : the fruit of the wicked to sin .
Now is she without , now in the streets , and lieth in wait at every corner . )
And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread ; for in this selfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt : therefore shall ye observe this day in your generations by an ordinance for ever .
And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him : for he had straitly sworn the children of Israel , saying , God will surely visit you ; and ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you .
For by me thy days shall be multiplied , and the years of thy life shall be increased .
Therefore Eli said unto Samuel , Go , lie down : and it shall be , if he call thee , that thou shalt say , Speak , Lord ; for thy servant heareth . So Samuel went and lay down in his place .
And John answered and said , Master , we saw one casting out devils in thy name ; and we forbad him , because he followeth not with us . 50And Jesus said unto him , Forbid him not : for he that is not against us is for us . 51And it came to pass , when the time was come that he should be received up , he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem , 52And sent messengers before his face : and they went , and entered into a village of the Samaritans , to make ready for him . 53And they did not receive him , because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem . 54And when his disciples James and John saw this , they said , Lord , wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven , and consume them , even as Elias did ? 55But he turned , and rebuked them , and said , Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of . 56 For the Son of man is not come to destroy men ' s lives , but to save them . And they went to another village . 57And it came to pass , that , as they went in the way , a certain man said unto him , Lord , I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest . 58And Jesus said unto him , Foxes have holes , and birds of the air have nests ; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head . 59And he said unto another , Follow me . But he said , Lord , suffer me first to go and bury my father . 60Jesus said unto him , Let the dead bury their dead : but go thou and preach the kingdom of God . 61And another also said , Lord , I will follow thee ; but let me first go bid them farewell , which are at home at my house . 62And Jesus said unto him , No man , having put his hand to the plough , and looking back , is fit for the kingdom of God .
And when he went out the second day , behold , two men of the Hebrews strove together : and he said to him that did the wrong , Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow ?
And he said unto them , Take nothing for your journey , neither staves , nor scrip , neither bread , neither money ; neither have two coats apiece .
What manner of saying is this that he said , Ye shall seek me , and shall not find me : and where I am , thither ye cannot come ?
So there was a division among the people because of him .
Jesus saith unto her , Woman , what have I to do with thee ? mine hour is not yet come .
And the Jews ' passover was at hand , and Jesus went up to Jerusalem ,
Ibhar also , and Elishua , and Nepheg , and Japhia ,
Get thee unto Pharaoh in the morning ; lo , he goeth out unto the water ; and thou shalt stand by the river ' s brink against he come ; and the rod which was turned to a serpent shalt thou take in thine hand .
And it shall come to pass , that on the sixth day they shall prepare that which they bring in ; and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily .
And he said , Art thou my very son Esau ? And he said , I am .
And he saith unto them , Whosoever shall put away his wife , and marry another , committeth adultery against her .
These words spake Jesus in the treasury , as he taught in the temple : and no man laid hands on him ; for his hour was not yet come .
Happy is the man that findeth wisdom , and the man that getteth understanding .
 And seek not ye what ye shall eat , or what ye shall drink , neither be ye of doubtful mind .
And by thy sword shalt thou live , and shalt serve thy brother ; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion , that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck .
And he straitly charged them , and commanded them to tell no man that thing ;
And they said one to another , We are verily guilty concerning our brother , in that we saw the anguish of his soul , when he besought us , and we would not hear ; therefore is this distress come upon us .
Hearken now unto my voice , I will give thee counsel , and God shall be with thee : Be thou for the people to God -ward , that thou mayest bring the causes unto God :
Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried unto Pharaoh , saying , Wherefore dealest thou thus with thy servants ?
The wise shall inherit glory : but shame shall be the promotion of fools .
And the waters prevailed , and were increased greatly upon the earth ; and the ark went upon the face of the waters .
But when Jesus saw it , he was much displeased , and said unto them , Suffer the little children to come unto me , and forbid them not : for of such is the kingdom of God .
And Joseph made haste ; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother : and he sought where to weep ; and he entered into his chamber , and wept there .
I am sinking!
And Jesus stood still , and commanded him to be called . And they call the blind man , saying unto him , Be of good comfort , rise ; he calleth thee . 50And he , casting away his garment , rose , and came to Jesus . 51And Jesus answered and said unto him , What wilt thou that I should do unto thee ? The blind man said unto him , Lord , that I might receive my sight . 52And Jesus said unto him , Go thy way ; thy faith hath made thee whole . And immediately he received his sight , and followed Jesus in the way .
And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him : for some said , He is a good man : others said , Nay ; but he deceiveth the people .
And Jacob rent his clothes , and put sackcloth upon his loins , and mourned for his son many days .
It is as sport to a fool to do mischief : but a man of understanding hath wisdom .
The princes also of Pharaoh saw her , and commended her before Pharaoh : and the woman was taken into Pharaoh ' s house .
And she said unto her , All that thou sayest unto me I will do .
So Joseph died , being an hundred and ten years old : and they embalmed him , and he was put in a coffin in Egypt .
And Joseph said unto them , What deed is this that ye have done ? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine ?
And they went up into the city : and when they were come into the city , behold , Samuel came out against them , for to go up to the high place .
For length of days , and long life , and peace , shall they add to thee .
And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth , about six hundred thousand on foot that were men , beside children .
And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of Sin , after their journeys , according to the commandment of the Lord , and pitched in Rephidim : and there was no water for the people to drink .
And thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws , and shalt shew them the way wherein they must walk , and the work that they must do .
And it came to pass the same day , that Isaac ' s servants came , and told him concerning the well which they had digged , and said unto him , We have found water .
But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving ; I will pay that that I have vowed . Salvation is of the Lord .
There went in two and two unto Noah into the ark , the male and the female , as God had commanded Noah .
These rights and freedoms may in no case be exercised contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations .
Thou wilt surely wear away , both thou , and this people that is with thee : for this thing is too heavy for thee ; thou art not able to perform it thyself alone .
And Jacob did separate the lambs , and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked , and all the brown in the flock of Laban ; and he put his own flocks by themselves , and put them not unto Laban ' s cattle .
And he removed from thence , and digged another well ; and for that they strove not : and he called the name of it Rehoboth ; and he said , For now the Lord hath made room for us , and we shall be fruitful in the land .
Jesus answered and said unto them , Destroy this temple , and in three days I will raise it up .
And Saul answered and said , Am not I a Benjamite , of the smallest of the tribes of Israel ? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin ? wherefore then speakest thou so to me ?
And Abram took Sarai his wife , and Lot his brother ' s son , and all their substance that they had gathered , and the souls that they had gotten in Haran ; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan ; and into the land of Canaan they came .
For she sitteth at the door of her house , on a seat in the high places of the city ,
And his disciples remembered that it was written , The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up .
They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy .
These are that Aaron and Moses , to whom the Lord said , Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies .
Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain ; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain .
And Isaac answered and said unto Esau , Behold , I have made him thy lord , and all his brethren have I given to him for servants ; and with corn and wine have I sustained him : and what shall I do now unto thee , my son ?
 And ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his mother ;
The blessing of the Lord , it maketh rich , and he addeth no sorrow with it .
And Reuben said unto them , Shed no blood , but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness , and lay no hand upon him ; that he might rid him out of their hands , to deliver him to his father again .
And Abner the son of Ner , and the servants of Ish–bosheth the son of Saul , went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon .
For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews : and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon .
 There is nothing from without a man , that entering into him can defile him : but the things which come out of him , those are they that defile the man .
Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children , because he was the son of his old age : and he made him a coat of many colours .
And he went from year to year in circuit to Beth–el , and Gilgal , and Mizpah , and judged Israel in all those places .
And he spake a parable unto them , saying , The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully :
And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them , and said unto them , Ye are spies ; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come .
And Joseph said unto him , This is the interpretation of it : The three branches are three days :
And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel ; and it was a cloud and darkness to them , but it gave light by night to these : so that the one came not near the other all the night .
And the Lord spake unto Moses and unto Aaron , and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel , and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt , to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt .
But , lo , he speaketh boldly , and they say nothing unto him . Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ ?
And there was a famine in the land : and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there ; for the famine was grievous in the land .
So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw .
And Jethro , Moses ' father in law , took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God : and Aaron came , and all the elders of Israel , to eat bread with Moses ' father in law before God .
And their father Israel said unto them , If it must be so now , do this ; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels , and carry down the man a present , a little balm , and a little honey , spices , and myrrh , nuts , and almonds :
And Cain knew his wife ; and she conceived , and bare Enoch : and he builded a city , and called the name of the city , after the name of his son , Enoch .
The fear of the wicked , it shall come upon him : but the desire of the righteous shall be granted .
And there was a very sore battle that day ; and Abner was beaten , and the men of Israel , before the servants of David .
And the man said , The woman whom thou gavest to be with me , she gave me of the tree , and I did eat .
And it shall be when the Lord shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanites , and the Hittites , and the Amorites , and the Hivites , and the Jebusites , which he sware unto thy fathers to give thee , a land flowing with milk and honey , that thou shalt keep this service in this month .
And he took them up in his arms , put his hands upon them , and blessed them .
And Moses said unto Pharaoh , Glory over me : when shall I entreat for thee , and for thy servants , and for thy people , to destroy the frogs from thee and thy houses , that they may remain in the river only ?
And the asses of Kish Saul ' s father were lost . And Kish said to Saul his son , Take now one of the servants with thee , and arise , go seek the asses .
And take double money in your hand ; and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks , carry it again in your hand ; peradventure it was an oversight :
 He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory : but he that seeketh his glory that sent him , the same is true , and no unrighteousness is in him .
And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth : and it was so .
Behold now , I have two daughters which have not known man ; let me , I pray you , bring them out unto you , and do ye to them as is good in your eyes : only unto these men do nothing ; for therefore came they under the shadow of my roof .
And as for thine asses that were lost three days ago , set not thy mind on them ; for they are found . And on whom is all the desire of Israel ? Is it not on thee , and on all thy father ' s house ?
And the Lord God said , Behold , the man is become as one of us , to know good and evil : and now , lest he put forth his hand , and take also of the tree of life , and eat , and live for ever :
And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Shechem , unto the plain of Moreh . And the Canaanite was then in the land .
And he turned himself about from them , and wept ; and returned to them again , and communed with them , and took from them Simeon , and bound him before their eyes .
And Zilpah Leah ' s maid bare Jacob a second son .
And Pharaoh said unto him , Get thee from me , take heed to thyself , see my face no more ; for in that day thou seest my face thou shalt die .
Then said the Jews , Forty and six years was this temple in building , and wilt thou rear it up in three days ?
They say unto him , Master , this woman was taken in adultery , in the very act .
Then he asked the men of that place , saying , Where is the harlot , that was openly by the way side ? And they said , There was no harlot in this place .
Jesus therefore answered and said unto them , Murmur not among yourselves .
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years : and he died .
But as for you , ye thought evil against me ; but God meant it unto good , to bring to pass , as it is this day , to save much people alive .
But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel , all the Philistines came up to seek David ; and David heard of it , and went down to the hold .
And Pharaoh ' s servants said unto him , How long shall this man be a snare unto us ? let the men go , that they may serve the Lord their God : knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed ?
Let my lord , I pray thee , pass over before his servant : and I will lead on softly , according as the cattle that goeth before me and the children be able to endure , until I come unto my lord unto Seir .
And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau , which were with her in the house , and put them upon Jacob her younger son :
And let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her , and leave them , that she may glean them , and rebuke her not .
Men and women of full age , without any limitation due to race , nationality or religion , have the right to marry and to found a family . They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage , during marriage and at its dissolution .
 And this is the Father ' s will which hath sent me , that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing , but should raise it up again at the last day .
And they which heard it , being convicted by their own conscience , went out one by one , beginning at the eldest , even unto the last : and Jesus was left alone , and the woman standing in the midst .
The way of the Lord is strength to the upright : but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity .
And the fish that is in the river shall die , and the river shall stink ; and the Egyptians shall lothe to drink of the water of the river .
And it came to pass , that when Isaac was old , and his eyes were dim , so that he could not see , he called Esau his eldest son , and said unto him , My son : and he said unto him , Behold , here am I .
And he saith unto them , Are ye so without understanding also ? Do ye not perceive , that whatsoever thing from without entereth into the man , it cannot defile him ;
And God heard their groaning , and God remembered his covenant with Abraham , with Isaac , and with Jacob .
And she answered and said unto him , Yes , Lord : yet the dogs under the table eat of the children ' s crumbs .
 I know that ye are Abraham ' s seed ; but ye seek to kill me , because my word hath no place in you .
And they said unto him , Nay , my lord , but to buy food are thy servants come .
And they knew not that Joseph understood them ; for he spake unto them by an interpreter .
And the king of Egypt called for the midwives , and said unto them , Why have ye done this thing , and have saved the men children alive ?
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste ; and he said , I have sinned against the Lord your God , and against you .
Discretion shall preserve thee , understanding shall keep thee :
And the Lord spake unto Moses and unto Aaron , saying ,
 And they twain shall be one flesh : so then they are no more twain , but one flesh .
And the child grew , and she brought him unto Pharaoh ' s daughter , and he became her son . And she called his name Moses : and she said , Because I drew him out of the water .
But the men put forth their hand , and pulled Lot into the house to them , and shut to the door .
And he charged him to tell no man : but go , and shew thyself to the priest , and offer for thy cleansing , according as Moses commanded , for a testimony unto them .
And when Saul ' s son heard that Abner was dead in Hebron , his hands were feeble , and all the Israelites were troubled .
And Joseph said unto them , Fear not : for am I in the place of God ?
Then said Boaz unto his servant that was set over the reapers , Whose damsel is this ?
And when Joseph ' s brethren saw that their father was dead , they said , Joseph will peradventure hate us , and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him .
That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair ; and they took them wives of all which they chose .
And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage , in mortar , and in brick , and in all manner of service in the field : all their service , wherein they made them serve , was with rigour .
 But the days will come , when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them , and then shall they fast in those days .
And he said unto them , Take heed , and beware of covetousness : for a man ' s life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth .
And Joseph was the governor over the land , and he it was that sold to all the people of the land : and Joseph ' s brethren came , and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth .
Give me my wives and my children , for whom I have served thee , and let me go : for thou knowest my service which I have done thee .
 When once the master of the house is risen up , and hath shut to the door , and ye begin to stand without , and to knock at the door , saying , Lord , Lord , open unto us ; and he shall answer and say unto you , I know you not whence ye are :
And God spake unto Moses , and said unto him , I am the Lord :
Envy thou not the oppressor , and choose none of his ways .
And Moses built an altar , and called the name of it Jehovah–nissi :
The man departed , and told the Jews that it was Jesus , which had made him whole .
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after Abner , and became one troop , and stood on the top of an hill .
Make thee an ark of gopher wood ; rooms shalt thou make in the ark , and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch .
That the Lord called Samuel : and he answered , Here am I .
So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man .
And when even was now come , his disciples went down unto the sea ,
And Leah conceived again , and bare Jacob the sixth son .
And they gathered them together upon heaps : and the land stank .
And Moses went out from Pharaoh , and entreated the Lord .
Article 7
And he said , What meanest thou by all this drove which I met ? And he said , These are to find grace in the sight of my lord .
And Cain talked with Abel his brother : and it came to pass , when they were in the field , that Cain rose up against Abel his brother , and slew him .
And they bring unto him one that was deaf , and had an impediment in his speech ; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him .
And there they left their images , and David and his men burned them .
And it came to pass on the third day in the morning , that there were thunders and lightnings , and a thick cloud upon the mount , and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud ; so that all the people that was in the camp trembled .
And there were three sons of Zeruiah there , Joab , and Abishai , and Asahel : and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild roe .
This is the book of the generations of Adam . In the day that God created man , in the likeness of God made he him ;
And Abram journeyed , going on still toward the south .
And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt , such as there was none like it , nor shall be like it any more .
 But new wine must be put into new bottles ; and both are preserved .
And thy servant my father said unto us , Ye know that my wife bare me two sons :
And I will harden Pharaoh ' s heart , and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt .
And he said unto his disciples , Therefore I say unto you , Take no thought for your life , what ye shall eat ; neither for the body , what ye shall put on .
But there were certain of the scribes sitting there , and reasoning in their hearts ,
And I will put enmity between thee and the woman , and between thy seed and her seed ; it shall bruise thy head , and thou shalt bruise his heel .
Then said the Lord , Doest thou well to be angry ?
And it came to pass , as he drew back his hand , that , behold , his brother came out : and she said , How hast thou broken forth ? this breach be upon thee : therefore his name was called Pharez .
Bind them continually upon thine heart , and tie them about thy neck .
And he will appoint him captains over thousands , and captains over fifties ; and will set them to ear his ground , and to reap his harvest , and to make his instruments of war , and instruments of his chariots .
And said , O sir , we came indeed down at the first time to buy food :
And they did so , and made them all sit down .
And the Lord appeared again in Shiloh : for the Lord revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord .
And Pharaoh charged all his people , saying , Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river , and every daughter ye shall save alive .
And the Lord said , I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth ; both man , and beast , and the creeping thing , and the fowls of the air ; for it repenteth me that I have made them .
And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite , whose name was Shua ; and he took her , and went in unto her .
That thou shalt set apart unto the Lord all that openeth the matrix , and every firstling that cometh of a beast which thou hast ; the males shall be the Lord ' s .
Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution .
But he saith unto them , It is I ; be not afraid .
And he builded an altar there , and called upon the name of the Lord , and pitched his tent there : and there Isaac ' s servants digged a well .
And were beyond measure astonished , saying , He hath done all things well : he maketh both the deaf to hear , and the dumb to speak .
And they that went in , went in male and female of all flesh , as God had commanded him : and the Lord shut him in .
And he also had made savoury meat , and brought it unto his father , and said unto his father , Let my father arise , and eat of his son ' s venison , that thy soul may bless me .
 If any man have ears to hear , let him hear .
For they covered the face of the whole earth , so that the land was darkened ; and they did eat every herb of the land , and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left : and there remained not any green thing in the trees , or in the herbs of the field , through all the land of Egypt .
And they gathered together to Mizpah , and drew water , and poured it out before the Lord , and fasted on that day , and said there , We have sinned against the Lord . And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah .
And the Lord did according to the word of Moses ; and the frogs died out of the houses , out of the villages , and out of the fields .
And he said , What pledge shall I give thee ? And she said , Thy signet , and thy bracelets , and thy staff that is in thine hand . And he gave it her , and came in unto her , and she conceived by him .
And God remembered Rachel , and God hearkened to her , and opened her womb .
Sanctify unto me all the firstborn , whatsoever openeth the womb among the children of Israel , both of man and of beast : it is mine .
And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt , and the Lord brought an east wind upon the land all that day , and all that night ; and when it was morning , the east wind brought the locusts .
And his sons walked not in his ways , but turned aside after lucre , and took bribes , and perverted judgment .
And he said unto him , See , I have accepted thee concerning this thing also , that I will not overthrow this city , for the which thou hast spoken .
And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy souls : for Joseph was in Egypt already .
For they cast down every man his rod , and they became serpents : but Aaron ' s rod swallowed up their rods .
Honour the Lord with thy substance , and with the firstfruits of all thine increase :
For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool , and troubled the water : whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had .
Then said they unto him , What shall we do , that we might work the works of God ?
For a certain woman , whose young daughter had an unclean spirit , heard of him , and came and fell at his feet :
For thou hadst cast me into the deep , in the midst of the seas ; and the floods compassed me about : all thy billows and thy waves passed over me .
And the officers of the children of Israel did see that they were in evil case , after it was said , Ye shall not minish ought from your bricks of your daily task .
And the children of Israel said to Samuel , Cease not to cry unto the Lord our God for us , that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines .
He answered them , He that made me whole , the same said unto me , Take up thy bed , and walk .
And Moses and Aaron did as the Lord commanded them , so did they .
 I tell you , Nay : but , except ye repent , ye shall all likewise perish .
And Ruth the Moabitess said , He said unto me also , Thou shalt keep fast by my young men , until they have ended all my harvest .
Article 20
For it was little which thou hadst before I came , and it is now increased unto a multitude ; and the Lord hath blessed thee since my coming : and now when shall I provide for mine own house also ?
But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep : and when they were awake , they saw his glory , and the two men that stood with him .
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her : and happy is every one that retaineth her .
And of every living thing of all flesh , two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark , to keep them alive with thee ; they shall be male and female .
When my soul fainted within me I remembered the Lord : and my prayer came in unto thee , into thine holy temple .
That they may keep thee from the strange woman , from the stranger which flattereth with her words .
Which having no guide , overseer , or ruler ,
And the thing which he did displeased the Lord : wherefore he slew him also .
And there came a voice out of the cloud , saying , This is my beloved Son : hear him .
And he called for Moses and Aaron by night , and said , Rise up , and get you forth from among my people , both ye and the children of Israel ; and go , serve the Lord , as ye have said .
Bring me venison , and make me savoury meat , that I may eat , and bless thee before the Lord before my death .
And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years , and begat sons and daughters :
 If I bear witness of myself , my witness is not true .
And it came to pass , when men began to multiply on the face of the earth , and daughters were born unto them ,
And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh , and said unto him , Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews , How long wilt thou refuse to humble thyself before me ? let my people go , that they may serve me .
And Jesus said unto him , Why callest thou me good ? there is none good but one , that is , God .
He that gathereth in summer is a wise son : but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame .
And he said , Appoint me thy wages , and I will give it .
And they took him , and cast him into a pit : and the pit was empty , there was no water in it .
And when they were come to the land of Zuph , Saul said to his servant that was with him , Come , and let us return ; lest my father leave caring for the asses , and take thought for us .
And he said , What is the thing that the Lord hath said unto thee ? I pray thee hide it not from me : God do so to thee , and more also , if thou hide any thing from me of all the things that he said unto thee .
And when Esau heard the words of his father , he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry , and said unto his father , Bless me , even me also , O my father .
Jesus answered and said unto them , I have done one work , and ye all marvel .
And the earth brought forth grass , and herb yielding seed after his kind , and the tree yielding fruit , whose seed was in itself , after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
And Moses said unto God , Who am I , that I should go unto Pharaoh , and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt ?
The competition will end today.
When he prepared the heavens , I was there : when he set a compass upon the face of the depth :
How much more , when wicked men have slain a righteous person in his own house upon his bed ? shall I not therefore now require his blood of your hand , and take you away from the earth ?
And they rose up betimes in the morning , and sware one to another : and Isaac sent them away , and they departed from him in peace .
As he spake these words , many believed on him .
And again he entered into Capernaum after some days ; and it was noised that he was in the house .
When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there , neither his disciples , they also took shipping , and came to Capernaum , seeking for Jesus .
And Jethro , Moses ' father in law , came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into the wilderness , where he encamped at the mount of God :
Article 25
And in the first day there shall be an holy convocation , and in the seventh day there shall be an holy convocation to you ; no manner of work shall be done in them , save that which every man must eat , that only may be done of you .
And he said unto them , Can ye make the children of the bridechamber fast , while the bridegroom is with them ?
And they came thither into the midst of the house , as though they would have fetched wheat ; and they smote him under the fifth rib : and Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped .
And it shall be when the Lord shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanites , as he sware unto thee and to thy fathers , and shall give it thee ,
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years : and he died .
 Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness shall be heard in the light ; and that which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shall be proclaimed upon the housetops .
And I will sever in that day the land of Goshen , in which my people dwell , that no swarms of flies shall be there ; to the end thou mayest know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth .
Stolen waters are sweet , and bread eaten in secret is pleasant .
He that walketh uprightly walketh surely : but he that perverteth his ways shall be known .
And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord , when I have gotten me honour upon Pharaoh , upon his chariots , and upon his horsemen .
And Simon answering said unto him , Master , we have toiled all the night , and have taken nothing : nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net .
But the Egyptians pursued after them , all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh , and his horsemen , and his army , and overtook them encamping by the sea , beside Pi–hahiroth , before Baal–zephon .
He that hideth hatred with lying lips , and he that uttereth a slander , is a fool .
And Enoch walked with God : and he was not ; for God took him .
And I have said , I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaanites , and the Hittites , and the Amorites , and the Perizzites , and the Hivites , and the Jebusites , unto a land flowing with milk and honey .
And the river shall bring forth frogs abundantly , which shall go up and come into thine house , and into thy bedchamber , and upon thy bed , and into the house of thy servants , and upon thy people , and into thine ovens , and into thy kneadingtroughs :
And they said , The God of the Hebrews hath met with us : let us go , we pray thee , three days ' journey into the desert , and sacrifice unto the Lord our God ; lest he fall upon us with pestilence , or with the sword .
Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees ; and they said unto them , Why have ye not brought him ?
And the Lord said unto Moses , See , I have made thee a god to Pharaoh : and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet .
Come , eat of my bread , and drink of the wine which I have mingled .
Article 18
The fear of the Lord is to hate evil : pride , and arrogancy , and the evil way , and the froward mouth , do I hate .
 I tell you , Nay : but , except ye repent , ye shall all likewise perish .
And the men that died not were smitten with the emerods : and the cry of the city went up to heaven .
 And I say unto you my friends , Be not afraid of them that kill the body , and after that have no more that they can do .
Article 22
Article 24
 Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard , Behold , these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree , and find none : cut it down ; why cumbereth it the ground ?
Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron , and spake , saying , Behold , we are thy bone and thy flesh .
 He that is of God heareth God ' s words : ye therefore hear them not , because ye are not of God .
He winketh with his eyes , he speaketh with his feet , he teacheth with his fingers ;
And God made the firmament , and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament : and it was so .
 And because I tell you the truth , ye believe me not .
And beheld among the simple ones , I discerned among the youths , a young man void of understanding ,
So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron ; and king David made a league with them in Hebron before the Lord : and they anointed David king over Israel .
The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life : but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked .
And let the priests also , which come near to the Lord , sanctify themselves , lest the Lord break forth upon them .
And thus shall ye eat it ; with your loins girded , your shoes on your feet , and your staff in your hand ; and ye shall eat it in haste : it is the Lord ' s passover .
 And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord , when he will return from the wedding ; that when he cometh and knocketh , they may open unto him immediately .
Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar , and Ahuzzath one of his friends , and Phichol the chief captain of his army .
O ye simple , understand wisdom : and , ye fools , be ye of an understanding heart .
Then answered them the Pharisees , Are ye also deceived ?
Whose ways are crooked , and they froward in their paths :
But think on me when it shall be well with thee , and shew kindness , I pray thee , unto me , and make mention of me unto Pharaoh , and bring me out of this house :
And if ye take this also from me , and mischief befall him , ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave .

And he said , I heard thy voice in the garden , and I was afraid , because I was naked ; and I hid myself .
And thou saidst unto thy servants , Bring him down unto me , that I may set mine eyes upon him .
And this he said to prove him : for he himself knew what he would do .
And it came to pass at the end of the four hundred and thirty years , even the selfsame day it came to pass , that all the hosts of the Lord went out from the land of Egypt .
And Lot went out , and spake unto his sons in law , which married his daughters , and said , Up , get you out of this place ; for the Lord will destroy this city . But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons in law .
Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh , and said , My father and my brethren , and their flocks , and their herds , and all that they have , are come out of the land of Canaan ; and , behold , they are in the land of Goshen .
 Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings , and not one of them is forgotten before God ?
These be the heads of their fathers ' houses : The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel ; Hanoch , and Pallu , Hezron , and Carmi : these be the families of Reuben .
 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles ; else the new wine will burst the bottles , and be spilled , and the bottles shall perish .
And he said , I seek my brethren : tell me , I pray thee , where they feed their flocks .
And Judah spake unto him , saying , The man did solemnly protest unto us , saying , Ye shall not see my face , except your brother be with you .
And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar , an officer of Pharaoh ' s , and captain of the guard .
Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies ? who can forgive sins but God only ?
And Abimelech called Isaac , and said , Behold , of a surety she is thy wife : and how saidst thou , She is my sister ? And Isaac said unto him , Because I said , Lest I die for her .
And Isaac dwelt in Gerar :
And Jesus went up into a mountain , and there he sat with his disciples .
And when he had made a scourge of small cords , he drove them all out of the temple , and the sheep , and the oxen ; and poured out the changers ' money , and overthrew the tables ;
The Pharisees therefore said unto him , Thou bearest record of thyself ; thy record is not true .
And his mother said unto him , Upon me be thy curse , my son : only obey my voice , and go fetch me them .
And she went , and came , and gleaned in the field after the reapers : and her hap was to light on a part of the field belonging unto Boaz , who was of the kindred of Elimelech .
So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth , and thy want as an armed man .
And when the dew that lay was gone up , behold , upon the face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing , as small as the hoar frost on the ground .
Behold , I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb ; and thou shalt smite the rock , and there shall come water out of it , that the people may drink . And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel .
For when they came into the house , he lay on his bed in his bedchamber , and they smote him , and slew him , and beheaded him , and took his head , and gat them away through the plain all night .
But her end is bitter as wormwood , sharp as a twoedged sword .
Seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses : for whosoever eateth that which is leavened , even that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel , whether he be a stranger , or born in the land .
And said , I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the Lord , and he heard me ; out of the belly of hell cried I , and thou heardest my voice .
The same day there came certain of the Pharisees , saying unto him , Get thee out , and depart hence : for Herod will kill thee .
Then I was by him , as one brought up with him : and I was daily his delight , rejoicing always before him ;
And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt , and in the land of Canaan , for the corn which they bought : and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh ' s house .
And he searched , and began at the eldest , and left at the youngest : and the cup was found in Benjamin ' s sack .
I will be surety for him ; of my hand shalt thou require him : if I bring him not unto thee , and set him before thee , then let me bear the blame for ever :
And he made them a feast , and they did eat and drink .
And the famine was sore in the land .
And Lot went up out of Zoar , and dwelt in the mountain , and his two daughters with him ; for he feared to dwell in Zoar : and he dwelt in a cave , he and his two daughters .
And afterward Moses and Aaron went in , and told Pharaoh , Thus saith the Lord God of Israel , Let my people go , that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness .
 How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest , and did eat the shewbread , which is not lawful to eat but for the priests , and gave also to them which were with him ?
Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defence .
And it came to pass on the morrow , that Moses sat to judge the people : and the people stood by Moses from the morning unto the evening .
And he put them all together into ward three days .
And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks , that , behold , every man ' s bundle of money was in his sack : and when both they and their father saw the bundles of money , they were afraid .
In the exercise of his rights and freedoms , everyone shall be subject only to such limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and of meeting the just requirements of morality , public order and the general welfare in a democratic society .
Six days shalt thou labour , and do all thy work :
And saith unto him , Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine ; and when men have well drunk , then that which is worse : but thou hast kept the good wine until now .
 No man can come to me , except the Father which hath sent me draw him : and I will raise him up at the last day .
My son , forget not my law ; but let thine heart keep my commandments :
Say unto wisdom , Thou art my sister ; and call understanding thy kinswoman :
And Lamech said unto his wives , Adah and Zillah , Hear my voice ; ye wives of Lamech , hearken unto my speech : for I have slain a man to my wounding , and a young man to my hurt .
If thou doest well , shalt thou not be accepted ? and if thou doest not well , sin lieth at the door . And unto thee shall be his desire , and thou shalt rule over him .
And they made their father drink wine that night also : and the younger arose , and lay with him ; and he perceived not when she lay down , nor when she arose .
Frowardness is in his heart , he deviseth mischief continually ; he soweth discord .
And she conceived , and bare a son ; and said , God hath taken away my reproach :
And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen , and thou shalt be near unto me , thou , and thy children , and thy children ' s children , and thy flocks , and thy herds , and all that thou hast :
And he set three days ' journey betwixt himself and Jacob : and Jacob fed the rest of Laban ' s flocks .
I love them that love me ; and those that seek me early shall find me .
And he that was healed wist not who it was : for Jesus had conveyed himself away , a multitude being in that place .
And he turned unto her by the way , and said , Go to , I pray thee , let me come in unto thee ; (for he knew not that she was his daughter in law . ) And she said , What wilt thou give me , that thou mayest come in unto me ?
Who leave the paths of uprightness , to walk in the ways of darkness ;
So Abram departed , as the Lord had spoken unto him ; and Lot went with him : and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran .
And the frogs shall depart from thee , and from thy houses , and from thy servants , and from thy people ; they shall remain in the river only .
Everyone has the right to life , liberty and security of person .
This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded , Gather of it every man according to his eating , an omer for every man , according to the number of your persons ; take ye every man for them which are in his tents .
When there were no depths , I was brought forth ; when there were no fountains abounding with water .
And the Lord called Samuel again the third time . And he arose and went to Eli , and said , Here am I ; for thou didst call me . And Eli perceived that the Lord had called the child .
But if he be found , he shall restore sevenfold ; he shall give all the substance of his house .
And the Lord said , My spirit shall not always strive with man , for that he also is flesh : yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years .
For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel , They are entangled in the land , the wilderness hath shut them in .
But God led the people about , through the way of the wilderness of the Red sea : and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt .
So now it was not you that sent me hither , but God : and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh , and lord of all his house , and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt .
 I speak that which I have seen with my Father : and ye do that which ye have seen with your father .
And they beckoned unto their partners , which were in the other ship , that they should come and help them . And they came , and filled both the ships , so that they began to sink .
And the children of Israel did so , and gathered , some more , some less .
And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh : and Moses cried unto the Lord because of the frogs which he had brought against Pharaoh .
Whoso is simple , let him turn in hither : as for him that wanteth understanding , she saith to him ,
So he sent his brethren away , and they departed : and he said unto them , See that ye fall not out by the way .
And he called his name Noah , saying , This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands , because of the ground which the Lord hath cursed .
And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves , he said unto them , Why reason ye these things in your hearts ?
And Isaac said unto his son , How is it that thou hast found it so quickly , my son ? And he said , Because the Lord thy God brought it to me .
And he said unto them , This is that which the Lord hath said , To morrow is the rest of the holy sabbath unto the Lord : bake that which ye will bake to day , and seethe that ye will seethe ; and that which remaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the morning .
And after these things he went forth , and saw a publican , named Levi , sitting at the receipt of custom : and he said unto him , Follow me .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , Go unto Pharaoh , and say unto him , Thus saith the Lord , Let my people go , that they may serve me .
This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations .
And the firstborn said unto the younger , Our father is old , and there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of all the earth :
But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect . And Cain was very wroth , and his countenance fell .
And the serpent said unto the woman , Ye shall not surely die :
When Pharaoh shall speak unto you , saying , Shew a miracle for you : then thou shalt say unto Aaron , Take thy rod , and cast it before Pharaoh , and it shall become a serpent .
Do you speak Maldivian?
And , behold , there talked with him two men , which were Moses and Elias :
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure , including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay .
And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days .
She said , No man , Lord . And Jesus said unto her , Neither do I condemn thee : go , and sin no more .
And they said , We saw certainly that the Lord was with thee : and we said , Let there be now an oath betwixt us , even betwixt us and thee , and let us make a covenant with thee ;
And Moses told his father in law all that the Lord had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel ' s sake , and all the travail that had come upon them by the way , and how the Lord delivered them .
And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan , and told him all that befell unto them ; saying ,
Then I said , I am cast out of thy sight ; yet I will look again toward thy holy temple .
And when they did mete it with an omer , he that gathered much had nothing over , and he that gathered little had no lack ; they gathered every man according to his eating .
Then she fell on her face , and bowed herself to the ground , and said unto him , Why have I found grace in thine eyes , that thou shouldest take knowledge of me , seeing I am a stranger ?
My son , attend unto my wisdom , and bow thine ear to my understanding :
For except we had lingered , surely now we had returned this second time .
Jesus answered and said unto them , Though I bear record of myself , yet my record is true : for I know whence I came , and whither I go ; but ye cannot tell whence I come , and whither I go .
And they laded their asses with the corn , and departed thence .
And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years , and begat Jared :
Ye shall no more give the people straw to make brick , as heretofore : let them go and gather straw for themselves .
And I besought thy disciples to cast him out ; and they could not .
When Simon Peter saw it , he fell down at Jesus ' knees , saying , Depart from me ; for I am a sinful man , O Lord .
 And shall come forth ; they that have done good , unto the resurrection of life ; and they that have done evil , unto the resurrection of damnation .
But every woman shall borrow of her neighbour , and of her that sojourneth in her house , jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment : and ye shall put them upon your sons , and upon your daughters ; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians .
And he said , Certainly I will be with thee ; and this shall be a token unto thee , that I have sent thee : When thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt , ye shall serve God upon this mountain .
And thou shalt say unto him , The Lord God of the Hebrews hath sent me unto thee , saying , Let my people go , that they may serve me in the wilderness : and , behold , hitherto thou wouldest not hear .
And God said unto Noah , The end of all flesh is come before me ; for the earth is filled with violence through them ; and , behold , I will destroy them with the earth .
And they said , Stand back . And they said again , This one fellow came in to sojourn , and he will needs be a judge : now will we deal worse with thee , than with them . And they pressed sore upon the man , even Lot , and came near to break the door .
And he wept aloud : and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard .
Article 13
Everyone has the right to work , to free choice of employment , to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment .
Hear me now therefore , O ye children , and depart not from the words of my mouth .
But I will lie with my fathers , and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt , and bury me in their buryingplace . And he said , I will do as thou hast said .
And it shall be for a token upon thine hand , and for frontlets between thine eyes : for by strength of hand the Lord brought us forth out of Egypt .
 And if it bear fruit , well : and if not , then after that thou shalt cut it down .
Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail ; and the mountains were covered .
And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh ' s house , saying , Joseph ' s brethren are come : and it pleased Pharaoh well , and his servants .
And her mother in law said unto her , Where hast thou gleaned to day ? and where wroughtest thou ? blessed be he that did take knowledge of thee . And she shewed her mother in law with whom she had wrought , and said , The man ' s name with whom I wrought to day is Boaz .
So David dwelt in the fort , and called it the city of David . And David built round about from Millo and inward .
And he pressed upon them greatly ; and they turned in unto him , and entered into his house ; and he made them a feast , and did bake unleavened bread , and they did eat .
And she lay at his feet until the morning : and she rose up before one could know another . And he said , Let it not be known that a woman came into the floor .
So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs , they see Jesus walking on the sea , and drawing nigh unto the ship : and they were afraid .
And Jacob came to Shalem , a city of Shechem , which is in the land of Canaan , when he came from Paddan–aram ; and pitched his tent before the city .
Till a dart strike through his liver ; as a bird hasteth to the snare , and knoweth not that it is for his life .
How long wilt thou sleep , O sluggard ? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep ?
Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made . And he said unto the woman , Yea , hath God said , Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden ?
And looking up to heaven , he sighed , and saith unto him , Ephphatha , that is , Be opened .
 Whether is easier , to say , Thy sins be forgiven thee ; or to say , Rise up and walk ?
And it came to pass , that there went out some of the people on the seventh day for to gather , and they found none .
And his brethren also went and fell down before his face ; and they said , Behold , we be thy servants .