In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth .
And the earth was without form , and void ; and darkness was upon the face of the deep . And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters .
And God said , Let there be light : and there was light .
And God saw the light , that it was good : and God divided the light from the darkness .
And God called the light Day , and the darkness he called Night . And the evening and the morning were the first day .
And God said , Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters , and let it divide the waters from the waters .
And God made the firmament , and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament : and it was so .
And God called the firmament Heaven . And the evening and the morning were the second day .
And God said , Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place , and let the dry land appear : and it was so .
And God called the dry land Earth ; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas : and God saw that it was good .
And God said , Let the earth bring forth grass , the herb yielding seed , and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind , whose seed is in itself , upon the earth : and it was so .
And the earth brought forth grass , and herb yielding seed after his kind , and the tree yielding fruit , whose seed was in itself , after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
And the evening and the morning were the third day .
And God said , Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night ; and let them be for signs , and for seasons , and for days , and years :
And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth : and it was so .
And God made two great lights ; the greater light to rule the day , and the lesser light to rule the night : he made the stars also .
And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth ,
And to rule over the day and over the night , and to divide the light from the darkness : and God saw that it was good .
And the evening and the morning were the fourth day .
And God said , Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life , and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven .
And God created great whales , and every living creature that moveth , which the waters brought forth abundantly , after their kind , and every winged fowl after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
And God blessed them , saying , Be fruitful , and multiply , and fill the waters in the seas , and let fowl multiply in the earth .
And the evening and the morning were the fifth day .
And God said , Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind , cattle , and creeping thing , and beast of the earth after his kind : and it was so .
And God made the beast of the earth after his kind , and cattle after their kind , and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
And God said , Let us make man in our image , after our likeness : and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea , and over the fowl of the air , and over the cattle , and over all the earth , and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth .
So God created man in his own image , in the image of God created he him ; male and female created he them .
And God blessed them , and God said unto them , Be fruitful , and multiply , and replenish the earth , and subdue it : and have dominion over the fish of the sea , and over the fowl of the air , and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth .
And God said , Behold , I have given you every herb bearing seed , which is upon the face of all the earth , and every tree , in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for meat .
And to every beast of the earth , and to every fowl of the air , and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth , wherein there is life , I have given every green herb for meat : and it was so .
And God saw every thing that he had made , and , behold , it was very good . And the evening and the morning were the sixth day .
Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made . And he said unto the woman , Yea , hath God said , Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden ?
And the woman said unto the serpent , We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden :
But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden , God hath said , Ye shall not eat of it , neither shall ye touch it , lest ye die .
And the serpent said unto the woman , Ye shall not surely die :
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof , then your eyes shall be opened , and ye shall be as gods , knowing good and evil .
And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food , and that it was pleasant to the eyes , and a tree to be desired to make one wise , she took of the fruit thereof , and did eat , and gave also unto her husband with her ; and he did eat .
And the eyes of them both were opened , and they knew that they were naked ; and they sewed fig leaves together , and made themselves aprons .
And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day : and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden .
And the Lord God called unto Adam , and said unto him , Where art thou ?
And he said , I heard thy voice in the garden , and I was afraid , because I was naked ; and I hid myself .
And he said , Who told thee that thou wast naked ? Hast thou eaten of the tree , whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat ?
And the man said , The woman whom thou gavest to be with me , she gave me of the tree , and I did eat .
And the Lord God said unto the woman , What is this that thou hast done ? And the woman said , The serpent beguiled me , and I did eat .
And the Lord God said unto the serpent , Because thou hast done this , thou art cursed above all cattle , and above every beast of the field ; upon thy belly shalt thou go , and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life :
And I will put enmity between thee and the woman , and between thy seed and her seed ; it shall bruise thy head , and thou shalt bruise his heel .
Unto the woman he said , I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception ; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children ; and thy desire shall be to thy husband , and he shall rule over thee .
And unto Adam he said , Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife , and hast eaten of the tree , of which I commanded thee , saying , Thou shalt not eat of it : cursed is the ground for thy sake ; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life ;
Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee ; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field ;
In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread , till thou return unto the ground ; for out of it wast thou taken : for dust thou art , and unto dust shalt thou return .
And Adam called his wife ' s name Eve ; because she was the mother of all living .
Unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skins , and clothed them .
And the Lord God said , Behold , the man is become as one of us , to know good and evil : and now , lest he put forth his hand , and take also of the tree of life , and eat , and live for ever :
Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden , to till the ground from whence he was taken .
So he drove out the man ; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims , and a flaming sword which turned every way , to keep the way of the tree of life .
And Adam knew Eve his wife ; and she conceived , and bare Cain , and said , I have gotten a man from the Lord .
And she again bare his brother Abel . And Abel was a keeper of sheep , but Cain was a tiller of the ground .
And in process of time it came to pass , that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord .
And Abel , he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof . And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering :
But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect . And Cain was very wroth , and his countenance fell .
And the Lord said unto Cain , Why art thou wroth ? and why is thy countenance fallen ?
If thou doest well , shalt thou not be accepted ? and if thou doest not well , sin lieth at the door . And unto thee shall be his desire , and thou shalt rule over him .
And Cain talked with Abel his brother : and it came to pass , when they were in the field , that Cain rose up against Abel his brother , and slew him .
And the Lord said unto Cain , Where is Abel thy brother ? And he said , I know not : Am I my brother ' s keeper ?
And he said , What hast thou done ? the voice of thy brother ' s blood crieth unto me from the ground .
And now art thou cursed from the earth , which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother ' s blood from thy hand ;
When thou tillest the ground , it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength ; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth .
And Cain said unto the Lord , My punishment is greater than I can bear .
Behold , thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth ; and from thy face shall I be hid ; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth ; and it shall come to pass , that every one that findeth me shall slay me .
And the Lord said unto him , Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain , vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold . And the Lord set a mark upon Cain , lest any finding him should kill him .
And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord , and dwelt in the land of Nod , on the east of Eden .
And Cain knew his wife ; and she conceived , and bare Enoch : and he builded a city , and called the name of the city , after the name of his son , Enoch .
And unto Enoch was born Irad : and Irad begat Mehujael : and Mehujael begat Methusael : and Methusael begat Lamech .
And Lamech took unto him two wives : the name of the one was Adah , and the name of the other Zillah .
And Adah bare Jabal : he was the father of such as dwell in tents , and of such as have cattle .
And his brother ' s name was Jubal : he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ .
And Zillah , she also bare Tubal–cain , an instructor of every artificer in brass and iron : and the sister of Tubal–cain was Naamah .
And Lamech said unto his wives , Adah and Zillah , Hear my voice ; ye wives of Lamech , hearken unto my speech : for I have slain a man to my wounding , and a young man to my hurt .
If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold , truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold .
And Adam knew his wife again ; and she bare a son , and called his name Seth : For God , said she , hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel , whom Cain slew .
And to Seth , to him also there was born a son ; and he called his name Enos : then began men to call upon the name of the Lord .
This is the book of the generations of Adam . In the day that God created man , in the likeness of God made he him ;
Male and female created he them ; and blessed them , and called their name Adam , in the day when they were created .
And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years , and begat a son in his own likeness , after his image ; and called his name Seth :
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years : and he begat sons and daughters :
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years : and he died .
And Seth lived an hundred and five years , and begat Enos :
And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years , and begat sons and daughters :
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years : and he died .
And Enos lived ninety years , and begat Cainan :
And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years , and begat sons and daughters :
And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years : and he died .
And Cainan lived seventy years , and begat Mahalaleel :
And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years , and begat sons and daughters :
And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years : and he died .
And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years , and begat Jared :
And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years , and begat sons and daughters :
And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years : and he died .
And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years , and he begat Enoch :
And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years , and begat sons and daughters :
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years : and he died .
And Enoch lived sixty and five years , and begat Methuselah :
And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years , and begat sons and daughters :
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years :
And Enoch walked with God : and he was not ; for God took him .
And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years , and begat Lamech :
And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years , and begat sons and daughters :
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years : and he died .
And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years , and begat a son :
And he called his name Noah , saying , This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands , because of the ground which the Lord hath cursed .
And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years , and begat sons and daughters :
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years : and he died .
And Noah was five hundred years old : and Noah begat Shem , Ham , and Japheth .
And it came to pass , when men began to multiply on the face of the earth , and daughters were born unto them ,
That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair ; and they took them wives of all which they chose .
And the Lord said , My spirit shall not always strive with man , for that he also is flesh : yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years .
There were giants in the earth in those days ; and also after that , when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men , and they bare children to them , the same became mighty men which were of old , men of renown .
And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth , and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually .
And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth , and it grieved him at his heart .
And the Lord said , I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth ; both man , and beast , and the creeping thing , and the fowls of the air ; for it repenteth me that I have made them .
But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord .
These are the generations of Noah : Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations , and Noah walked with God .
And Noah begat three sons , Shem , Ham , and Japheth .
The earth also was corrupt before God , and the earth was filled with violence .
And God looked upon the earth , and , behold , it was corrupt ; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth .
And God said unto Noah , The end of all flesh is come before me ; for the earth is filled with violence through them ; and , behold , I will destroy them with the earth .
Make thee an ark of gopher wood ; rooms shalt thou make in the ark , and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch .
And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of : The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits , the breadth of it fifty cubits , and the height of it thirty cubits .
A window shalt thou make to the ark , and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above ; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof ; with lower , second , and third stories shalt thou make it .
And , behold , I , even I , do bring a flood of waters upon the earth , to destroy all flesh , wherein is the breath of life , from under heaven ; and every thing that is in the earth shall die .
But with thee will I establish my covenant ; and thou shalt come into the ark , thou , and thy sons , and thy wife , and thy sons ' wives with thee .
And of every living thing of all flesh , two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark , to keep them alive with thee ; they shall be male and female .
Of fowls after their kind , and of cattle after their kind , of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind , two of every sort shall come unto thee , to keep them alive .
And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten , and thou shalt gather it to thee ; and it shall be for food for thee , and for them .
Thus did Noah ; according to all that God commanded him , so did he .
And the Lord said unto Noah , Come thou and all thy house into the ark ; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation .
Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens , the male and his female : and of beasts that are not clean by two , the male and his female .
Of fowls also of the air by sevens , the male and the female ; to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth .
For yet seven days , and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights ; and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth .
And Noah did according unto all that the Lord commanded him .
And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth .
And Noah went in , and his sons , and his wife , and his sons ' wives with him , into the ark , because of the waters of the flood .
Of clean beasts , and of beasts that are not clean , and of fowls , and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth ,
There went in two and two unto Noah into the ark , the male and the female , as God had commanded Noah .
And it came to pass after seven days , that the waters of the flood were upon the earth .
In the six hundredth year of Noah ' s life , in the second month , the seventeenth day of the month , the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up , and the windows of heaven were opened .
And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights .
In the selfsame day entered Noah , and Shem , and Ham , and Japheth , the sons of Noah , and Noah ' s wife , and the three wives of his sons with them , into the ark ;
They , and every beast after his kind , and all the cattle after their kind , and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind , and every fowl after his kind , every bird of every sort .
And they went in unto Noah into the ark , two and two of all flesh , wherein is the breath of life .
And they that went in , went in male and female of all flesh , as God had commanded him : and the Lord shut him in .
And the flood was forty days upon the earth ; and the waters increased , and bare up the ark , and it was lift up above the earth .
And the waters prevailed , and were increased greatly upon the earth ; and the ark went upon the face of the waters .
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth ; and all the high hills , that were under the whole heaven , were covered .
Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail ; and the mountains were covered .
And all flesh died that moved upon the earth , both of fowl , and of cattle , and of beast , and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth , and every man :
All in whose nostrils was the breath of life , of all that was in the dry land , died .
And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground , both man , and cattle , and the creeping things , and the fowl of the heaven ; and they were destroyed from the earth : and Noah only remained alive , and they that were with him in the ark .
And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days .
Now the Lord had said unto Abram , Get thee out of thy country , and from thy kindred , and from thy father ' s house , unto a land that I will shew thee :
And I will make of thee a great nation , and I will bless thee , and make thy name great ; and thou shalt be a blessing :
And I will bless them that bless thee , and curse him that curseth thee : and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed .
So Abram departed , as the Lord had spoken unto him ; and Lot went with him : and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran .
And Abram took Sarai his wife , and Lot his brother ' s son , and all their substance that they had gathered , and the souls that they had gotten in Haran ; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan ; and into the land of Canaan they came .
And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Shechem , unto the plain of Moreh . And the Canaanite was then in the land .
And the Lord appeared unto Abram , and said , Unto thy seed will I give this land : and there builded he an altar unto the Lord , who appeared unto him .
And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Beth–el , and pitched his tent , having Beth–el on the west , and Ai on the east : and there he builded an altar unto the Lord , and called upon the name of the Lord .
And Abram journeyed , going on still toward the south .
And there was a famine in the land : and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there ; for the famine was grievous in the land .
And it came to pass , when he was come near to enter into Egypt , that he said unto Sarai his wife , Behold now , I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon :
Therefore it shall come to pass , when the Egyptians shall see thee , that they shall say , This is his wife : and they will kill me , but they will save thee alive .
Say , I pray thee , thou art my sister : that it may be well with me for thy sake ; and my soul shall live because of thee .
And it came to pass , that , when Abram was come into Egypt , the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair .
The princes also of Pharaoh saw her , and commended her before Pharaoh : and the woman was taken into Pharaoh ' s house .
And he entreated Abram well for her sake : and he had sheep , and oxen , and he asses , and menservants , and maidservants , and she asses , and camels .
And the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram ' s wife .
And Pharaoh called Abram , and said , What is this that thou hast done unto me ? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife ?
Why saidst thou , She is my sister ? so I might have taken her to me to wife : now therefore behold thy wife , take her , and go thy way .
And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him : and they sent him away , and his wife , and all that he had .
And there came two angels to Sodom at even ; and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom : and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them ; and he bowed himself with his face toward the ground ;
And he said , Behold now , my lords , turn in , I pray you , into your servant ' s house , and tarry all night , and wash your feet , and ye shall rise up early , and go on your ways . And they said , Nay ; but we will abide in the street all night .
And he pressed upon them greatly ; and they turned in unto him , and entered into his house ; and he made them a feast , and did bake unleavened bread , and they did eat .
But before they lay down , the men of the city , even the men of Sodom , compassed the house round , both old and young , all the people from every quarter :
And they called unto Lot , and said unto him , Where are the men which came in to thee this night ? bring them out unto us , that we may know them .
And Lot went out at the door unto them , and shut the door after him ,
And said , I pray you , brethren , do not so wickedly .
Behold now , I have two daughters which have not known man ; let me , I pray you , bring them out unto you , and do ye to them as is good in your eyes : only unto these men do nothing ; for therefore came they under the shadow of my roof .
And they said , Stand back . And they said again , This one fellow came in to sojourn , and he will needs be a judge : now will we deal worse with thee , than with them . And they pressed sore upon the man , even Lot , and came near to break the door .
But the men put forth their hand , and pulled Lot into the house to them , and shut to the door .
And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness , both small and great : so that they wearied themselves to find the door .
And the men said unto Lot , Hast thou here any besides ? son in law , and thy sons , and thy daughters , and whatsoever thou hast in the city , bring them out of this place :
For we will destroy this place , because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the Lord ; and the Lord hath sent us to destroy it .
And Lot went out , and spake unto his sons in law , which married his daughters , and said , Up , get you out of this place ; for the Lord will destroy this city . But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons in law .
And when the morning arose , then the angels hastened Lot , saying , Arise , take thy wife , and thy two daughters , which are here ; lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city .
And while he lingered , the men laid hold upon his hand , and upon the hand of his wife , and upon the hand of his two daughters ; the Lord being merciful unto him : and they brought him forth , and set him without the city .
And it came to pass , when they had brought them forth abroad , that he said , Escape for thy life ; look not behind thee , neither stay thou in all the plain ; escape to the mountain , lest thou be consumed .
And Lot said unto them , Oh , not so , my Lord :
Behold now , thy servant hath found grace in thy sight , and thou hast magnified thy mercy , which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life ; and I cannot escape to the mountain , lest some evil take me , and I die :
Behold now , this city is near to flee unto , and it is a little one : Oh , let me escape thither , (is it not a little one ? ) and my soul shall live .
And he said unto him , See , I have accepted thee concerning this thing also , that I will not overthrow this city , for the which thou hast spoken .
Haste thee , escape thither ; for I cannot do any thing till thou be come thither . Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar .
The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar .
Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven ;
And he overthrew those cities , and all the plain , and all the inhabitants of the cities , and that which grew upon the ground .
But his wife looked back from behind him , and she became a pillar of salt .
And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the Lord :
And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah , and toward all the land of the plain , and beheld , and , lo , the smoke of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace .
And it came to pass , when God destroyed the cities of the plain , that God remembered Abraham , and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow , when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt .
And Lot went up out of Zoar , and dwelt in the mountain , and his two daughters with him ; for he feared to dwell in Zoar : and he dwelt in a cave , he and his two daughters .
And the firstborn said unto the younger , Our father is old , and there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of all the earth :
Come , let us make our father drink wine , and we will lie with him , that we may preserve seed of our father .
And they made their father drink wine that night : and the firstborn went in , and lay with her father ; and he perceived not when she lay down , nor when she arose .
And it came to pass on the morrow , that the firstborn said unto the younger , Behold , I lay yesternight with my father : let us make him drink wine this night also ; and go thou in , and lie with him , that we may preserve seed of our father .
And they made their father drink wine that night also : and the younger arose , and lay with him ; and he perceived not when she lay down , nor when she arose .
Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father .
And the firstborn bare a son , and called his name Moab : the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day .
And the younger , she also bare a son , and called his name Ben–ammi : the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this day .
And there was a famine in the land , beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham . And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar .
And the Lord appeared unto him , and said , Go not down into Egypt ; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of :
Sojourn in this land , and I will be with thee , and will bless thee ; for unto thee , and unto thy seed , I will give all these countries , and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father ;
And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven , and will give unto thy seed all these countries ; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed ;
Because that Abraham obeyed my voice , and kept my charge , my commandments , my statutes , and my laws .
And Isaac dwelt in Gerar :
And the men of the place asked him of his wife ; and he said , She is my sister : for he feared to say , She is my wife ; lest , said he , the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah ; because she was fair to look upon .
And it came to pass , when he had been there a long time , that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window , and saw , and , behold , Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife .
And Abimelech called Isaac , and said , Behold , of a surety she is thy wife : and how saidst thou , She is my sister ? And Isaac said unto him , Because I said , Lest I die for her .
And Abimelech said , What is this thou hast done unto us ? one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife , and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us .
And Abimelech charged all his people , saying , He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death .
Then Isaac sowed in that land , and received in the same year an hundredfold : and the Lord blessed him .
And the man waxed great , and went forward , and grew until he became very great :
For he had possession of flocks , and possession of herds , and great store of servants : and the Philistines envied him .
For all the wells which his father ' s servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father , the Philistines had stopped them , and filled them with earth .
And Abimelech said unto Isaac , Go from us ; for thou art much mightier than we .
And Isaac departed thence , and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar , and dwelt there .
And Isaac digged again the wells of water , which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father ; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham : and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them .
And Isaac ' s servants digged in the valley , and found there a well of springing water .
And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac ' s herdmen , saying , The water is ours : and he called the name of the well Esek ; because they strove with him .
And they digged another well , and strove for that also : and he called the name of it Sitnah .
And he removed from thence , and digged another well ; and for that they strove not : and he called the name of it Rehoboth ; and he said , For now the Lord hath made room for us , and we shall be fruitful in the land .
And he went up from thence to Beer–sheba .
And the Lord appeared unto him the same night , and said , I am the God of Abraham thy father : fear not , for I am with thee , and will bless thee , and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham ' s sake .
And he builded an altar there , and called upon the name of the Lord , and pitched his tent there : and there Isaac ' s servants digged a well .
Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar , and Ahuzzath one of his friends , and Phichol the chief captain of his army .
And Isaac said unto them , Wherefore come ye to me , seeing ye hate me , and have sent me away from you ?
And they said , We saw certainly that the Lord was with thee : and we said , Let there be now an oath betwixt us , even betwixt us and thee , and let us make a covenant with thee ;
That thou wilt do us no hurt , as we have not touched thee , and as we have done unto thee nothing but good , and have sent thee away in peace : thou art now the blessed of the Lord .
And he made them a feast , and they did eat and drink .
And they rose up betimes in the morning , and sware one to another : and Isaac sent them away , and they departed from him in peace .
And it came to pass the same day , that Isaac ' s servants came , and told him concerning the well which they had digged , and said unto him , We have found water .
And he called it Shebah : therefore the name of the city is Beer–sheba unto this day .
And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite , and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite :
Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah .
And it came to pass , that when Isaac was old , and his eyes were dim , so that he could not see , he called Esau his eldest son , and said unto him , My son : and he said unto him , Behold , here am I .
And he said , Behold now , I am old , I know not the day of my death :
Now therefore take , I pray thee , thy weapons , thy quiver and thy bow , and go out to the field , and take me some venison ;
And make me savoury meat , such as I love , and bring it to me , that I may eat ; that my soul may bless thee before I die .
And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son . And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison , and to bring it .
And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son , saying , Behold , I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother , saying ,
Bring me venison , and make me savoury meat , that I may eat , and bless thee before the Lord before my death .
Now therefore , my son , obey my voice according to that which I command thee .
Go now to the flock , and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats ; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father , such as he loveth :
And thou shalt bring it to thy father , that he may eat , and that he may bless thee before his death .
And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother , Behold , Esau my brother is a hairy man , and I am a smooth man :
My father peradventure will feel me , and I shall seem to him as a deceiver ; and I shall bring a curse upon me , and not a blessing .
And his mother said unto him , Upon me be thy curse , my son : only obey my voice , and go fetch me them .
And he went , and fetched , and brought them to his mother : and his mother made savoury meat , such as his father loved .
And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau , which were with her in the house , and put them upon Jacob her younger son :
And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands , and upon the smooth of his neck :
And she gave the savoury meat and the bread , which she had prepared , into the hand of her son Jacob .
And he came unto his father , and said , My father : and he said , Here am I ; who art thou , my son ?
And Jacob said unto his father , I am Esau thy firstborn ; I have done according as thou badest me : arise , I pray thee , sit and eat of my venison , that thy soul may bless me .
And Isaac said unto his son , How is it that thou hast found it so quickly , my son ? And he said , Because the Lord thy God brought it to me .
And Isaac said unto Jacob , Come near , I pray thee , that I may feel thee , my son , whether thou be my very son Esau or not .
And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father ; and he felt him , and said , The voice is Jacob ' s voice , but the hands are the hands of Esau .
And he discerned him not , because his hands were hairy , as his brother Esau ' s hands : so he blessed him .
And he said , Art thou my very son Esau ? And he said , I am .
And he said , Bring it near to me , and I will eat of my son ' s venison , that my soul may bless thee . And he brought it near to him , and he did eat : and he brought him wine , and he drank .
And his father Isaac said unto him , Come near now , and kiss me , my son .
And he came near , and kissed him : and he smelled the smell of his raiment , and blessed him , and said , See , the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the Lord hath blessed :
Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven , and the fatness of the earth , and plenty of corn and wine :
Let people serve thee , and nations bow down to thee : be lord over thy brethren , and let thy mother ' s sons bow down to thee : cursed be every one that curseth thee , and blessed be he that blesseth thee .
And it came to pass , as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob , and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father , that Esau his brother came in from his hunting .
And he also had made savoury meat , and brought it unto his father , and said unto his father , Let my father arise , and eat of his son ' s venison , that thy soul may bless me .
And Isaac his father said unto him , Who art thou ? And he said , I am thy son , thy firstborn Esau .
And Isaac trembled very exceedingly , and said , Who ? where is he that hath taken venison , and brought it me , and I have eaten of all before thou camest , and have blessed him ? yea , and he shall be blessed .
And when Esau heard the words of his father , he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry , and said unto his father , Bless me , even me also , O my father .
And he said , Thy brother came with subtilty , and hath taken away thy blessing .
And he said , Is not he rightly named Jacob ? for he hath supplanted me these two times : he took away my birthright ; and , behold , now he hath taken away my blessing . And he said , Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me ?
And Isaac answered and said unto Esau , Behold , I have made him thy lord , and all his brethren have I given to him for servants ; and with corn and wine have I sustained him : and what shall I do now unto thee , my son ?
And Esau said unto his father , Hast thou but one blessing , my father ? bless me , even me also , O my father . And Esau lifted up his voice , and wept .
And Isaac his father answered and said unto him , Behold , thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth , and of the dew of heaven from above ;
And by thy sword shalt thou live , and shalt serve thy brother ; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion , that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck .
And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him : and Esau said in his heart , The days of mourning for my father are at hand ; then will I slay my brother Jacob .
And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah : and she sent and called Jacob her younger son , and said unto him , Behold , thy brother Esau , as touching thee , doth comfort himself , purposing to kill thee .
Now therefore , my son , obey my voice ; and arise , flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran ;
And tarry with him a few days , until thy brother ' s fury turn away ;
Until thy brother ' s anger turn away from thee , and he forget that which thou hast done to him : then I will send , and fetch thee from thence : why should I be deprived also of you both in one day ?
And Rebekah said to Isaac , I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth : if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth , such as these which are of the daughters of the land , what good shall my life do me ?
And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children , Rachel envied her sister ; and said unto Jacob , Give me children , or else I die .
And Jacob ' s anger was kindled against Rachel : and he said , Am I in God ' s stead , who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb ?
And she said , Behold my maid Bilhah , go in unto her ; and she shall bear upon my knees , that I may also have children by her .
And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife : and Jacob went in unto her .
And Bilhah conceived , and bare Jacob a son .
And Rachel said , God hath judged me , and hath also heard my voice , and hath given me a son : therefore called she his name Dan .
And Bilhah Rachel ' s maid conceived again , and bare Jacob a second son .
And Rachel said , With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister , and I have prevailed : and she called his name Naphtali .
When Leah saw that she had left bearing , she took Zilpah her maid , and gave her Jacob to wife .
And Zilpah Leah ' s maid bare Jacob a son .
And Leah said , A troop cometh : and she called his name Gad .
And Zilpah Leah ' s maid bare Jacob a second son .
And Leah said , Happy am I , for the daughters will call me blessed : and she called his name Asher .
And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest , and found mandrakes in the field , and brought them unto his mother Leah . Then Rachel said to Leah , Give me , I pray thee , of thy son ' s mandrakes .
And she said unto her , Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband ? and wouldest thou take away my son ' s mandrakes also ? And Rachel said , Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son ' s mandrakes .
And Jacob came out of the field in the evening , and Leah went out to meet him , and said , Thou must come in unto me ; for surely I have hired thee with my son ' s mandrakes . And he lay with her that night .
And God hearkened unto Leah , and she conceived , and bare Jacob the fifth son .
And Leah said , God hath given me my hire , because I have given my maiden to my husband : and she called his name Issachar .
And Leah conceived again , and bare Jacob the sixth son .
And Leah said , God hath endued me with a good dowry ; now will my husband dwell with me , because I have born him six sons : and she called his name Zebulun .
And afterwards she bare a daughter , and called her name Dinah .
And God remembered Rachel , and God hearkened to her , and opened her womb .
And she conceived , and bare a son ; and said , God hath taken away my reproach :
And she called his name Joseph ; and said , The Lord shall add to me another son .
And it came to pass , when Rachel had born Joseph , that Jacob said unto Laban , Send me away , that I may go unto mine own place , and to my country .
Give me my wives and my children , for whom I have served thee , and let me go : for thou knowest my service which I have done thee .
And Laban said unto him , I pray thee , if I have found favour in thine eyes , tarry : for I have learned by experience that the Lord hath blessed me for thy sake .
And he said , Appoint me thy wages , and I will give it .
And he said unto him , Thou knowest how I have served thee , and how thy cattle was with me .
For it was little which thou hadst before I came , and it is now increased unto a multitude ; and the Lord hath blessed thee since my coming : and now when shall I provide for mine own house also ?
And he said , What shall I give thee ? And Jacob said , Thou shalt not give me any thing : if thou wilt do this thing for me , I will again feed and keep thy flock :
I will pass through all thy flock to day , removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle , and all the brown cattle among the sheep , and the spotted and speckled among the goats : and of such shall be my hire .
So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come , when it shall come for my hire before thy face : every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats , and brown among the sheep , that shall be counted stolen with me .
And Laban said , Behold , I would it might be according to thy word .
And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted , and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted , and every one that had some white in it , and all the brown among the sheep , and gave them into the hand of his sons .
And he set three days ' journey betwixt himself and Jacob : and Jacob fed the rest of Laban ' s flocks .
And Jacob took him rods of green poplar , and of the hazel and chesnut tree ; and pilled white strakes in them , and made the white appear which was in the rods .
And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink , that they should conceive when they came to drink .
And the flocks conceived before the rods , and brought forth cattle ringstraked , speckled , and spotted .
And Jacob did separate the lambs , and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked , and all the brown in the flock of Laban ; and he put his own flocks by themselves , and put them not unto Laban ' s cattle .
And it came to pass , whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive , that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters , that they might conceive among the rods .
But when the cattle were feeble , he put them not in : so the feebler were Laban ' s , and the stronger Jacob ' s .
And the man increased exceedingly , and had much cattle , and maidservants , and menservants , and camels , and asses .
And Jacob lifted up his eyes , and looked , and , behold , Esau came , and with him four hundred men . And he divided the children unto Leah , and unto Rachel , and unto the two handmaids .
And he put the handmaids and their children foremost , and Leah and her children after , and Rachel and Joseph hindermost .
And he passed over before them , and bowed himself to the ground seven times , until he came near to his brother .
And Esau ran to meet him , and embraced him , and fell on his neck , and kissed him : and they wept .
And he lifted up his eyes , and saw the women and the children ; and said , Who are those with thee ? And he said , The children which God hath graciously given thy servant .
Then the handmaidens came near , they and their children , and they bowed themselves .
And Leah also with her children came near , and bowed themselves : and after came Joseph near and Rachel , and they bowed themselves .
And he said , What meanest thou by all this drove which I met ? And he said , These are to find grace in the sight of my lord .
And Esau said , I have enough , my brother ; keep that thou hast unto thyself .
And Jacob said , Nay , I pray thee , if now I have found grace in thy sight , then receive my present at my hand : for therefore I have seen thy face , as though I had seen the face of God , and thou wast pleased with me .
Take , I pray thee , my blessing that is brought to thee ; because God hath dealt graciously with me , and because I have enough . And he urged him , and he took it .
And he said , Let us take our journey , and let us go , and I will go before thee .
And he said unto him , My lord knoweth that the children are tender , and the flocks and herds with young are with me : and if men should overdrive them one day , all the flock will die .
Let my lord , I pray thee , pass over before his servant : and I will lead on softly , according as the cattle that goeth before me and the children be able to endure , until I come unto my lord unto Seir .
And Esau said , Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me . And he said , What needeth it ? let me find grace in the sight of my lord .
So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir .
And Jacob journeyed to Succoth , and built him an house , and made booths for his cattle : therefore the name of the place is called Succoth .
And Jacob came to Shalem , a city of Shechem , which is in the land of Canaan , when he came from Paddan–aram ; and pitched his tent before the city .
And he bought a parcel of a field , where he had spread his tent , at the hand of the children of Hamor , Shechem ' s father , for an hundred pieces of money .
And he erected there an altar , and called it El–elohe–Israel .
And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger , in the land of Canaan .
These are the generations of Jacob . Joseph , being seventeen years old , was feeding the flock with his brethren ; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah , and with the sons of Zilpah , his father ' s wives : and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report .
Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children , because he was the son of his old age : and he made him a coat of many colours .
And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren , they hated him , and could not speak peaceably unto him .
And Joseph dreamed a dream , and he told it his brethren : and they hated him yet the more .
And he said unto them , Hear , I pray you , this dream which I have dreamed :
For , behold , we were binding sheaves in the field , and , lo , my sheaf arose , and also stood upright ; and , behold , your sheaves stood round about , and made obeisance to my sheaf .
And his brethren said to him , Shalt thou indeed reign over us ? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us ? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams , and for his words .
And he dreamed yet another dream , and told it his brethren , and said , Behold , I have dreamed a dream more ; and , behold , the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me .
And he told it to his father , and to his brethren : and his father rebuked him , and said unto him , What is this dream that thou hast dreamed ? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth ?
And his brethren envied him ; but his father observed the saying .
And his brethren went to feed their father ' s flock in Shechem .
And Israel said unto Joseph , Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem ? come , and I will send thee unto them . And he said to him , Here am I .
And he said to him , Go , I pray thee , see whether it be well with thy brethren , and well with the flocks ; and bring me word again . So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron , and he came to Shechem .
And a certain man found him , and , behold , he was wandering in the field : and the man asked him , saying , What seekest thou ?
And he said , I seek my brethren : tell me , I pray thee , where they feed their flocks .
And the man said , They are departed hence ; for I heard them say , Let us go to Dothan . And Joseph went after his brethren , and found them in Dothan .
And when they saw him afar off , even before he came near unto them , they conspired against him to slay him .
And they said one to another , Behold , this dreamer cometh .
Come now therefore , and let us slay him , and cast him into some pit , and we will say , Some evil beast hath devoured him : and we shall see what will become of his dreams .
And Reuben heard it , and he delivered him out of their hands ; and said , Let us not kill him .
And Reuben said unto them , Shed no blood , but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness , and lay no hand upon him ; that he might rid him out of their hands , to deliver him to his father again .
And it came to pass , when Joseph was come unto his brethren , that they stript Joseph out of his coat , his coat of many colours that was on him ;
And they took him , and cast him into a pit : and the pit was empty , there was no water in it .
And they sat down to eat bread : and they lifted up their eyes and looked , and , behold , a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh , going to carry it down to Egypt .
And Judah said unto his brethren , What profit is it if we slay our brother , and conceal his blood ?
Come , and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites , and let not our hand be upon him ; for he is our brother and our flesh . And his brethren were content .
Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen ; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit , and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver : and they brought Joseph into Egypt .
And Reuben returned unto the pit ; and , behold , Joseph was not in the pit ; and he rent his clothes .
And he returned unto his brethren , and said , The child is not ; and I , whither shall I go ?
And they took Joseph ' s coat , and killed a kid of the goats , and dipped the coat in the blood ;
And they sent the coat of many colours , and they brought it to their father ; and said , This have we found : know now whether it be thy son ' s coat or no .
And he knew it , and said , It is my son ' s coat ; an evil beast hath devoured him ; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces .
And Jacob rent his clothes , and put sackcloth upon his loins , and mourned for his son many days .
And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him ; but he refused to be comforted ; and he said , For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning . Thus his father wept for him .
And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar , an officer of Pharaoh ' s , and captain of the guard .
And it came to pass at that time , that Judah went down from his brethren , and turned in to a certain Adullamite , whose name was Hirah .
And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite , whose name was Shua ; and he took her , and went in unto her .
And she conceived , and bare a son ; and he called his name Er .
And she conceived again , and bare a son ; and she called his name Onan .
And she yet again conceived , and bare a son ; and called his name Shelah : and he was at Chezib , when she bare him .
And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn , whose name was Tamar .
And Er , Judah ' s firstborn , was wicked in the sight of the Lord ; and the Lord slew him .
And Judah said unto Onan , Go in unto thy brother ' s wife , and marry her , and raise up seed to thy brother .
And Onan knew that the seed should not be his ; and it came to pass , when he went in unto his brother ' s wife , that he spilled it on the ground , lest that he should give seed to his brother .
And the thing which he did displeased the Lord : wherefore he slew him also .
Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law , Remain a widow at thy father ' s house , till Shelah my son be grown : for he said , Lest peradventure he die also , as his brethren did . And Tamar went and dwelt in her father ' s house .
And in process of time the daughter of Shua Judah ' s wife died ; and Judah was comforted , and went up unto his sheepshearers to Timnah , he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite .
And it was told Tamar , saying , Behold thy father in law goeth up to Timnah to shear his sheep .
And she put her widow ' s garments off from her , and covered her with a veil , and wrapped herself , and sat in an open place , which is by the way to Timnah ; for she saw that Shelah was grown , and she was not given unto him to wife .
When Judah saw her , he thought her to be an harlot ; because she had covered her face .
And he turned unto her by the way , and said , Go to , I pray thee , let me come in unto thee ; (for he knew not that she was his daughter in law . ) And she said , What wilt thou give me , that thou mayest come in unto me ?
And he said , I will send thee a kid from the flock . And she said , Wilt thou give me a pledge , till thou send it ?
And he said , What pledge shall I give thee ? And she said , Thy signet , and thy bracelets , and thy staff that is in thine hand . And he gave it her , and came in unto her , and she conceived by him .
And she arose , and went away , and laid by her veil from her , and put on the garments of her widowhood .
And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite , to receive his pledge from the woman ' s hand : but he found her not .
Then he asked the men of that place , saying , Where is the harlot , that was openly by the way side ? And they said , There was no harlot in this place .
And he returned to Judah , and said , I cannot find her ; and also the men of the place said , that there was no harlot in this place .
And Judah said , Let her take it to her , lest we be shamed : behold , I sent this kid , and thou hast not found her .
And it came to pass about three months after , that it was told Judah , saying , Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot ; and also , behold , she is with child by whoredom . And Judah said , Bring her forth , and let her be burnt .
When she was brought forth , she sent to her father in law , saying , By the man , whose these are , am I with child : and she said , Discern , I pray thee , whose are these , the signet , and bracelets , and staff .
And Judah acknowledged them , and said , She hath been more righteous than I ; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son . And he knew her again no more .
And it came to pass in the time of her travail , that , behold , twins were in her womb .
And it came to pass , when she travailed , that the one put out his hand : and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread , saying , This came out first .
And it came to pass , as he drew back his hand , that , behold , his brother came out : and she said , How hast thou broken forth ? this breach be upon thee : therefore his name was called Pharez .
And afterward came out his brother , that had the scarlet thread upon his hand : and his name was called Zerah .
And it came to pass after these things , that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt .
And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers , against the chief of the butlers , and against the chief of the bakers .
And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard , into the prison , the place where Joseph was bound .
And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them , and he served them : and they continued a season in ward .
And they dreamed a dream both of them , each man his dream in one night , each man according to the interpretation of his dream , the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt , which were bound in the prison .
And Joseph came in unto them in the morning , and looked upon them , and , behold , they were sad .
And he asked Pharaoh ' s officers that were with him in the ward of his lord ' s house , saying , Wherefore look ye so sadly to day ?
And they said unto him , We have dreamed a dream , and there is no interpreter of it . And Joseph said unto them , Do not interpretations belong to God ? tell me them , I pray you .
And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph , and said to him , In my dream , behold , a vine was before me ;
And in the vine were three branches : and it was as though it budded , and her blossoms shot forth ; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes :
And Pharaoh ' s cup was in my hand : and I took the grapes , and pressed them into Pharaoh ' s cup , and I gave the cup into Pharaoh ' s hand .
And Joseph said unto him , This is the interpretation of it : The three branches are three days :
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head , and restore thee unto thy place : and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh ' s cup into his hand , after the former manner when thou wast his butler .
But think on me when it shall be well with thee , and shew kindness , I pray thee , unto me , and make mention of me unto Pharaoh , and bring me out of this house :
For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews : and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon .
When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good , he said unto Joseph , I also was in my dream , and , behold , I had three white baskets on my head :
And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh ; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head .
And Joseph answered and said , This is the interpretation thereof : The three baskets are three days :
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee , and shall hang thee on a tree ; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee .
And it came to pass the third day , which was Pharaoh ' s birthday , that he made a feast unto all his servants : and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants .
And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again ; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh ' s hand :
But he hanged the chief baker : as Joseph had interpreted to them .
Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph , but forgat him .
Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt , Jacob said unto his sons , Why do ye look one upon another ?
And he said , Behold , I have heard that there is corn in Egypt : get you down thither , and buy for us from thence ; that we may live , and not die .
And Joseph ' s ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt .
But Benjamin , Joseph ' s brother , Jacob sent not with his brethren ; for he said , Lest peradventure mischief befall him .
And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came : for the famine was in the land of Canaan .
And Joseph was the governor over the land , and he it was that sold to all the people of the land : and Joseph ' s brethren came , and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth .
And Joseph saw his brethren , and he knew them , but made himself strange unto them , and spake roughly unto them ; and he said unto them , Whence come ye ? And they said , From the land of Canaan to buy food .
And Joseph knew his brethren , but they knew not him .
And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them , and said unto them , Ye are spies ; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come .
And they said unto him , Nay , my lord , but to buy food are thy servants come .
We are all one man ' s sons ; we are true men , thy servants are no spies .
And he said unto them , Nay , but to see the nakedness of the land ye are come .
And they said , Thy servants are twelve brethren , the sons of one man in the land of Canaan ; and , behold , the youngest is this day with our father , and one is not .
And Joseph said unto them , That is it that I spake unto you , saying , Ye are spies :
Hereby ye shall be proved : By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence , except your youngest brother come hither .
Send one of you , and let him fetch your brother , and ye shall be kept in prison , that your words may be proved , whether there be any truth in you : or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies .
And he put them all together into ward three days .
And Joseph said unto them the third day , This do , and live ; for I fear God :
If ye be true men , let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison : go ye , carry corn for the famine of your houses :
But bring your youngest brother unto me ; so shall your words be verified , and ye shall not die . And they did so .
And they said one to another , We are verily guilty concerning our brother , in that we saw the anguish of his soul , when he besought us , and we would not hear ; therefore is this distress come upon us .
And Reuben answered them , saying , Spake I not unto you , saying , Do not sin against the child ; and ye would not hear ? therefore , behold , also his blood is required .
And they knew not that Joseph understood them ; for he spake unto them by an interpreter .
And he turned himself about from them , and wept ; and returned to them again , and communed with them , and took from them Simeon , and bound him before their eyes .
Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn , and to restore every man ' s money into his sack , and to give them provision for the way : and thus did he unto them .
And they laded their asses with the corn , and departed thence .
And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn , he espied his money ; for , behold , it was in his sack ' s mouth .
And he said unto his brethren , My money is restored ; and , lo , it is even in my sack : and their heart failed them , and they were afraid , saying one to another , What is this that God hath done unto us ?
And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan , and told him all that befell unto them ; saying ,
The man , who is the lord of the land , spake roughly to us , and took us for spies of the country .
And we said unto him , We are true men ; we are no spies :
We be twelve brethren , sons of our father ; one is not , and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan .
And the man , the lord of the country , said unto us , Hereby shall I know that ye are true men ; leave one of your brethren here with me , and take food for the famine of your households , and be gone :
And bring your youngest brother unto me : then shall I know that ye are no spies , but that ye are true men : so will I deliver you your brother , and ye shall traffick in the land .
And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks , that , behold , every man ' s bundle of money was in his sack : and when both they and their father saw the bundles of money , they were afraid .
And Jacob their father said unto them , Me have ye bereaved of my children : Joseph is not , and Simeon is not , and ye will take Benjamin away : all these things are against me .
And Reuben spake unto his father , saying , Slay my two sons , if I bring him not to thee : deliver him into my hand , and I will bring him to thee again .
And he said , My son shall not go down with you ; for his brother is dead , and he is left alone : if mischief befall him by the way in the which ye go , then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave .
And the famine was sore in the land .
And it came to pass , when they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt , their father said unto them , Go again , buy us a little food .
And Judah spake unto him , saying , The man did solemnly protest unto us , saying , Ye shall not see my face , except your brother be with you .
If thou wilt send our brother with us , we will go down and buy thee food :
But if thou wilt not send him , we will not go down : for the man said unto us , Ye shall not see my face , except your brother be with you .
And Israel said , Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me , as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother ?
And they said , The man asked us straitly of our state , and of our kindred , saying , Is your father yet alive ? have ye another brother ? and we told him according to the tenor of these words : could we certainly know that he would say , Bring your brother down ?
And Judah said unto Israel his father , Send the lad with me , and we will arise and go ; that we may live , and not die , both we , and thou , and also our little ones .
I will be surety for him ; of my hand shalt thou require him : if I bring him not unto thee , and set him before thee , then let me bear the blame for ever :
For except we had lingered , surely now we had returned this second time .
And their father Israel said unto them , If it must be so now , do this ; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels , and carry down the man a present , a little balm , and a little honey , spices , and myrrh , nuts , and almonds :
And take double money in your hand ; and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks , carry it again in your hand ; peradventure it was an oversight :
Take also your brother , and arise , go again unto the man :
And God Almighty give you mercy before the man , that he may send away your other brother , and Benjamin . If I be bereaved of my children , I am bereaved .
And the men took that present , and they took double money in their hand , and Benjamin ; and rose up , and went down to Egypt , and stood before Joseph .
And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them , he said to the ruler of his house , Bring these men home , and slay , and make ready ; for these men shall dine with me at noon .
And the man did as Joseph bade ; and the man brought the men into Joseph ' s house .
And the men were afraid , because they were brought into Joseph ' s house ; and they said , Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in ; that he may seek occasion against us , and fall upon us , and take us for bondmen , and our asses .
And they came near to the steward of Joseph ' s house , and they communed with him at the door of the house ,
And said , O sir , we came indeed down at the first time to buy food :
And it came to pass , when we came to the inn , that we opened our sacks , and , behold , every man ' s money was in the mouth of his sack , our money in full weight : and we have brought it again in our hand .
And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food : we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks .
And he said , Peace be to you , fear not : your God , and the God of your father , hath given you treasure in your sacks : I had your money . And he brought Simeon out unto them .
And the man brought the men into Joseph ' s house , and gave them water , and they washed their feet ; and he gave their asses provender .
And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon : for they heard that they should eat bread there .
And when Joseph came home , they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house , and bowed themselves to him to the earth .
And he asked them of their welfare , and said , Is your father well , the old man of whom ye spake ? Is he yet alive ?
And they answered , Thy servant our father is in good health , he is yet alive . And they bowed down their heads , and made obeisance .
And he lifted up his eyes , and saw his brother Benjamin , his mother ' s son , and said , Is this your younger brother , of whom ye spake unto me ? And he said , God be gracious unto thee , my son .
And Joseph made haste ; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother : and he sought where to weep ; and he entered into his chamber , and wept there .
And he washed his face , and went out , and refrained himself , and said , Set on bread .
And they set on for him by himself , and for them by themselves , and for the Egyptians , which did eat with him , by themselves : because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews ; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians .
And they sat before him , the firstborn according to his birthright , and the youngest according to his youth : and the men marvelled one at another .
And he took and sent messes unto them from before him : but Benjamin ' s mess was five times so much as any of theirs . And they drank , and were merry with him .
And he commanded the steward of his house , saying , Fill the men ' s sacks with food , as much as they can carry , and put every man ' s money in his sack ' s mouth .
And put my cup , the silver cup , in the sack ' s mouth of the youngest , and his corn money . And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken .
As soon as the morning was light , the men were sent away , they and their asses .
And when they were gone out of the city , and not yet far off , Joseph said unto his steward , Up , follow after the men ; and when thou dost overtake them , say unto them , Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good ?
Is not this it in which my lord drinketh , and whereby indeed he divineth ? ye have done evil in so doing .
And he overtook them , and he spake unto them these same words .
And they said unto him , Wherefore saith my lord these words ? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing :
Behold , the money , which we found in our sacks ' mouths , we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan : how then should we steal out of thy lord ' s house silver or gold ?
With whomsoever of thy servants it be found , both let him die , and we also will be my lord ' s bondmen .
And he said , Now also let it be according unto your words : he with whom it is found shall be my servant ; and ye shall be blameless .
Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground , and opened every man his sack .
And he searched , and began at the eldest , and left at the youngest : and the cup was found in Benjamin ' s sack .
Then they rent their clothes , and laded every man his ass , and returned to the city .
And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph ' s house ; for he was yet there : and they fell before him on the ground .
And Joseph said unto them , What deed is this that ye have done ? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine ?
And Judah said , What shall we say unto my lord ? what shall we speak ? or how shall we clear ourselves ? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants : behold , we are my lord ' s servants , both we , and he also with whom the cup is found .
And he said , God forbid that I should do so : but the man in whose hand the cup is found , he shall be my servant ; and as for you , get you up in peace unto your father .
Then Judah came near unto him , and said , Oh my lord , let thy servant , I pray thee , speak a word in my lord ' s ears , and let not thine anger burn against thy servant : for thou art even as Pharaoh .
My lord asked his servants , saying , Have ye a father , or a brother ?
And we said unto my lord , We have a father , an old man , and a child of his old age , a little one ; and his brother is dead , and he alone is left of his mother , and his father loveth him .
And thou saidst unto thy servants , Bring him down unto me , that I may set mine eyes upon him .
And we said unto my lord , The lad cannot leave his father : for if he should leave his father , his father would die .
And thou saidst unto thy servants , Except your youngest brother come down with you , ye shall see my face no more .
And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father , we told him the words of my lord .
And our father said , Go again , and buy us a little food .
And we said , We cannot go down : if our youngest brother be with us , then will we go down : for we may not see the man ' s face , except our youngest brother be with us .
And thy servant my father said unto us , Ye know that my wife bare me two sons :
And the one went out from me , and I said , Surely he is torn in pieces ; and I saw him not since :
And if ye take this also from me , and mischief befall him , ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave .
Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father , and the lad be not with us ; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad ' s life ;
It shall come to pass , when he seeth that the lad is not with us , that he will die : and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave .
For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father , saying , If I bring him not unto thee , then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever .
Now therefore , I pray thee , let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord ; and let the lad go up with his brethren .
For how shall I go up to my father , and the lad be not with me ? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father .
Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him ; and he cried , Cause every man to go out from me . And there stood no man with him , while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren .
And he wept aloud : and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard .
And Joseph said unto his brethren , I am Joseph ; doth my father yet live ? And his brethren could not answer him ; for they were troubled at his presence .
And Joseph said unto his brethren , Come near to me , I pray you . And they came near . And he said , I am Joseph your brother , whom ye sold into Egypt .
Now therefore be not grieved , nor angry with yourselves , that ye sold me hither : for God did send me before you to preserve life .
For these two years hath the famine been in the land : and yet there are five years , in the which there shall neither be earing nor harvest .
And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth , and to save your lives by a great deliverance .
So now it was not you that sent me hither , but God : and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh , and lord of all his house , and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt .
Haste ye , and go up to my father , and say unto him , Thus saith thy son Joseph , God hath made me lord of all Egypt : come down unto me , tarry not :
And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen , and thou shalt be near unto me , thou , and thy children , and thy children ' s children , and thy flocks , and thy herds , and all that thou hast :
And there will I nourish thee ; for yet there are five years of famine ; lest thou , and thy household , and all that thou hast , come to poverty .
And , behold , your eyes see , and the eyes of my brother Benjamin , that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you .
And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt , and of all that ye have seen ; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither .
And he fell upon his brother Benjamin ' s neck , and wept ; and Benjamin wept upon his neck .
Moreover he kissed all his brethren , and wept upon them : and after that his brethren talked with him .
And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh ' s house , saying , Joseph ' s brethren are come : and it pleased Pharaoh well , and his servants .
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph , Say unto thy brethren , This do ye ; lade your beasts , and go , get you unto the land of Canaan ;
And take your father and your households , and come unto me : and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt , and ye shall eat the fat of the land .
Now thou art commanded , this do ye ; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones , and for your wives , and bring your father , and come .
Also regard not your stuff ; for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours .
And the children of Israel did so : and Joseph gave them wagons , according to the commandment of Pharaoh , and gave them provision for the way .
To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment ; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver , and five changes of raiment .
And to his father he sent after this manner ; ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt , and ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father by the way .
So he sent his brethren away , and they departed : and he said unto them , See that ye fall not out by the way .
And they went up out of Egypt , and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father ,
And told him , saying , Joseph is yet alive , and he is governor over all the land of Egypt . And Jacob ' s heart fainted , for he believed them not .
And they told him all the words of Joseph , which he had said unto them : and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him , the spirit of Jacob their father revived :
And Israel said , It is enough ; Joseph my son is yet alive : I will go and see him before I die .
Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh , and said , My father and my brethren , and their flocks , and their herds , and all that they have , are come out of the land of Canaan ; and , behold , they are in the land of Goshen .
And he took some of his brethren , even five men , and presented them unto Pharaoh .
And Pharaoh said unto his brethren , What is your occupation ? And they said unto Pharaoh , Thy servants are shepherds , both we , and also our fathers .
They said moreover unto Pharaoh , For to sojourn in the land are we come ; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks ; for the famine is sore in the land of Canaan : now therefore , we pray thee , let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen .
And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph , saying , Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee :
The land of Egypt is before thee ; in the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell ; in the land of Goshen let them dwell : and if thou knowest any men of activity among them , then make them rulers over my cattle .
And Joseph brought in Jacob his father , and set him before Pharaoh : and Jacob blessed Pharaoh .
And Pharaoh said unto Jacob , How old art thou ?
And Jacob said unto Pharaoh , The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an hundred and thirty years : few and evil have the days of the years of my life been , and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage .
And Jacob blessed Pharaoh , and went out from before Pharaoh .
And Joseph placed his father and his brethren , and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt , in the best of the land , in the land of Rameses , as Pharaoh had commanded .
And Joseph nourished his father , and his brethren , and all his father ' s household , with bread , according to their families .
And there was no bread in all the land ; for the famine was very sore , so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine .
And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt , and in the land of Canaan , for the corn which they bought : and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh ' s house .
And when money failed in the land of Egypt , and in the land of Canaan , all the Egyptians came unto Joseph , and said , Give us bread : for why should we die in thy presence ? for the money faileth .
And Joseph said , Give your cattle ; and I will give you for your cattle , if money fail .
And they brought their cattle unto Joseph : and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses , and for the flocks , and for the cattle of the herds , and for the asses : and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year .
When that year was ended , they came unto him the second year , and said unto him , We will not hide it from my lord , how that our money is spent ; my lord also hath our herds of cattle ; there is not ought left in the sight of my lord , but our bodies , and our lands :
Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes , both we and our land ? buy us and our land for bread , and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh : and give us seed , that we may live , and not die , that the land be not desolate .
And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh ; for the Egyptians sold every man his field , because the famine prevailed over them : so the land became Pharaoh ' s .
And as for the people , he removed them to cities from one end of the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof .
Only the land of the priests bought he not ; for the priests had a portion assigned them of Pharaoh , and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them : wherefore they sold not their lands .
Then Joseph said unto the people , Behold , I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh : lo , here is seed for you , and ye shall sow the land .
And it shall come to pass in the increase , that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh , and four parts shall be your own , for seed of the field , and for your food , and for them of your households , and for food for your little ones .
And they said , Thou hast saved our lives : let us find grace in the sight of my lord , and we will be Pharaoh ' s servants .
And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day , that Pharaoh should have the fifth part ; except the land of the priests only , which became not Pharaoh ' s .
And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt , in the country of Goshen ; and they had possessions therein , and grew , and multiplied exceedingly .
And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years : so the whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years .
And the time drew nigh that Israel must die : and he called his son Joseph , and said unto him , If now I have found grace in thy sight , put , I pray thee , thy hand under my thigh , and deal kindly and truly with me ; bury me not , I pray thee , in Egypt :
But I will lie with my fathers , and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt , and bury me in their buryingplace . And he said , I will do as thou hast said .
And he said , Swear unto me . And he sware unto him . And Israel bowed himself upon the bed ' s head .
And Joseph fell upon his father ' s face , and wept upon him , and kissed him .
And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father : and the physicians embalmed Israel .
And forty days were fulfilled for him ; for so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed : and the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and ten days .
And when the days of his mourning were past , Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh , saying , If now I have found grace in your eyes , speak , I pray you , in the ears of Pharaoh , saying ,
My father made me swear , saying , Lo , I die : in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan , there shalt thou bury me . Now therefore let me go up , I pray thee , and bury my father , and I will come again .
And Pharaoh said , Go up , and bury thy father , according as he made thee swear .
And Joseph went up to bury his father : and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh , the elders of his house , and all the elders of the land of Egypt ,
And all the house of Joseph , and his brethren , and his father ' s house : only their little ones , and their flocks , and their herds , they left in the land of Goshen .
And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen : and it was a very great company .
And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad , which is beyond Jordan , and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation : and he made a mourning for his father seven days .
And when the inhabitants of the land , the Canaanites , saw the mourning in the floor of Atad , they said , This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians : wherefore the name of it was called Abel–mizraim , which is beyond Jordan .
And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them :
For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan , and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah , which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite , before Mamre .
And Joseph returned into Egypt , he , and his brethren , and all that went up with him to bury his father , after he had buried his father .
And when Joseph ' s brethren saw that their father was dead , they said , Joseph will peradventure hate us , and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him .
And they sent a messenger unto Joseph , saying , Thy father did command before he died , saying ,
So shall ye say unto Joseph , Forgive , I pray thee now , the trespass of thy brethren , and their sin ; for they did unto thee evil : and now , we pray thee , forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father . And Joseph wept when they spake unto him .
And his brethren also went and fell down before his face ; and they said , Behold , we be thy servants .
And Joseph said unto them , Fear not : for am I in the place of God ?
But as for you , ye thought evil against me ; but God meant it unto good , to bring to pass , as it is this day , to save much people alive .
Now therefore fear ye not : I will nourish you , and your little ones . And he comforted them , and spake kindly unto them .
And Joseph dwelt in Egypt , he , and his father ' s house : and Joseph lived an hundred and ten years .
And Joseph saw Ephraim ' s children of the third generation : the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph ' s knees .
And Joseph said unto his brethren , I die : and God will surely visit you , and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham , to Isaac , and to Jacob .
And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel , saying , God will surely visit you , and ye shall carry up my bones from hence .
So Joseph died , being an hundred and ten years old : and they embalmed him , and he was put in a coffin in Egypt .
Now these are the names of the children of Israel , which came into Egypt ; every man and his household came with Jacob .
Reuben , Simeon , Levi , and Judah ,
Issachar , Zebulun , and Benjamin ,
Dan , and Naphtali , Gad , and Asher .
And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy souls : for Joseph was in Egypt already .
And Joseph died , and all his brethren , and all that generation .
And the children of Israel were fruitful , and increased abundantly , and multiplied , and waxed exceeding mighty ; and the land was filled with them .
Now there arose up a new king over Egypt , which knew not Joseph .
And he said unto his people , Behold , the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we :
Come on , let us deal wisely with them ; lest they multiply , and it come to pass , that , when there falleth out any war , they join also unto our enemies , and fight against us , and so get them up out of the land .
Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens . And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities , Pithom and Rameses .
But the more they afflicted them , the more they multiplied and grew . And they were grieved because of the children of Israel .
And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigour :
And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage , in mortar , and in brick , and in all manner of service in the field : all their service , wherein they made them serve , was with rigour .
And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives , of which the name of the one was Shiphrah , and the name of the other Puah :
And he said , When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women , and see them upon the stools ; if it be a son , then ye shall kill him : but if it be a daughter , then she shall live .
But the midwives feared God , and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them , but saved the men children alive .
And the king of Egypt called for the midwives , and said unto them , Why have ye done this thing , and have saved the men children alive ?
And the midwives said unto Pharaoh , Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women ; for they are lively , and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them .
Therefore God dealt well with the midwives : and the people multiplied , and waxed very mighty .
And it came to pass , because the midwives feared God , that he made them houses .
And Pharaoh charged all his people , saying , Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river , and every daughter ye shall save alive .
And there went a man of the house of Levi , and took to wife a daughter of Levi .
And the woman conceived , and bare a son : and when she saw him that he was a goodly child , she hid him three months .
And when she could not longer hide him , she took for him an ark of bulrushes , and daubed it with slime and with pitch , and put the child therein ; and she laid it in the flags by the river ' s brink .
And his sister stood afar off , to wit what would be done to him .
And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river ; and her maidens walked along by the river ' s side ; and when she saw the ark among the flags , she sent her maid to fetch it .
And when she had opened it , she saw the child : and , behold , the babe wept . And she had compassion on him , and said , This is one of the Hebrews ' children .
Then said his sister to Pharaoh ' s daughter , Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women , that she may nurse the child for thee ?
And Pharaoh ' s daughter said to her , Go . And the maid went and called the child ' s mother .
And Pharaoh ' s daughter said unto her , Take this child away , and nurse it for me , and I will give thee thy wages . And the woman took the child , and nursed it .
And the child grew , and she brought him unto Pharaoh ' s daughter , and he became her son . And she called his name Moses : and she said , Because I drew him out of the water .
And it came to pass in those days , when Moses was grown , that he went out unto his brethren , and looked on their burdens : and he spied an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew , one of his brethren .
And he looked this way and that way , and when he saw that there was no man , he slew the Egyptian , and hid him in the sand .
And when he went out the second day , behold , two men of the Hebrews strove together : and he said to him that did the wrong , Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow ?
And he said , Who made thee a prince and a judge over us ? intendest thou to kill me , as thou killedst the Egyptian ? And Moses feared , and said , Surely this thing is known .
Now when Pharaoh heard this thing , he sought to slay Moses . But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh , and dwelt in the land of Midian : and he sat down by a well .
Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters : and they came and drew water , and filled the troughs to water their father ' s flock .
And the shepherds came and drove them away : but Moses stood up and helped them , and watered their flock .
And when they came to Reuel their father , he said , How is it that ye are come so soon to day ?
And they said , An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds , and also drew water enough for us , and watered the flock .
And he said unto his daughters , And where is he ? why is it that ye have left the man ? call him , that he may eat bread .
And Moses was content to dwell with the man : and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter .
And she bare him a son , and he called his name Gershom : for he said , I have been a stranger in a strange land .
And it came to pass in process of time , that the king of Egypt died : and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage , and they cried , and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage .
And God heard their groaning , and God remembered his covenant with Abraham , with Isaac , and with Jacob .
And God looked upon the children of Israel , and God had respect unto them .
Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law , the priest of Midian : and he led the flock to the backside of the desert , and came to the mountain of God , even to Horeb .
And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush : and he looked , and , behold , the bush burned with fire , and the bush was not consumed .
And Moses said , I will now turn aside , and see this great sight , why the bush is not burnt .
And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see , God called unto him out of the midst of the bush , and said , Moses , Moses . And he said , Here am I .
And he said , Draw not nigh hither : put off thy shoes from off thy feet , for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground .
Moreover he said , I am the God of thy father , the God of Abraham , the God of Isaac , and the God of Jacob . And Moses hid his face ; for he was afraid to look upon God .
And the Lord said , I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt , and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters ; for I know their sorrows ;
And I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians , and to bring them up out of that land unto a good land and a large , unto a land flowing with milk and honey ; unto the place of the Canaanites , and the Hittites , and the Amorites , and the Perizzites , and the Hivites , and the Jebusites .
Now therefore , behold , the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me : and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppress them .
Come now therefore , and I will send thee unto Pharaoh , that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt .
And Moses said unto God , Who am I , that I should go unto Pharaoh , and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt ?
And he said , Certainly I will be with thee ; and this shall be a token unto thee , that I have sent thee : When thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt , ye shall serve God upon this mountain .
And Moses said unto God , Behold , when I come unto the children of Israel , and shall say unto them , The God of your fathers hath sent me unto you ; and they shall say to me , What is his name ? what shall I say unto them ?
And God said unto Moses , I AM THAT I AM : and he said , Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel , I AM hath sent me unto you .
And God said moreover unto Moses , Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel , The Lord God of your fathers , the God of Abraham , the God of Isaac , and the God of Jacob , hath sent me unto you : this is my name for ever , and this is my memorial unto all generations .
Go , and gather the elders of Israel together , and say unto them , The Lord God of your fathers , the God of Abraham , of Isaac , and of Jacob , appeared unto me , saying , I have surely visited you , and seen that which is done to you in Egypt :
And I have said , I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaanites , and the Hittites , and the Amorites , and the Perizzites , and the Hivites , and the Jebusites , unto a land flowing with milk and honey .
And they shall hearken to thy voice : and thou shalt come , thou and the elders of Israel , unto the king of Egypt , and ye shall say unto him , The Lord God of the Hebrews hath met with us : and now let us go , we beseech thee , three days ' journey into the wilderness , that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God .
And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go , no , not by a mighty hand .
And I will stretch out my hand , and smite Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in the midst thereof : and after that he will let you go .
And I will give this people favour in the sight of the Egyptians : and it shall come to pass , that , when ye go , ye shall not go empty :
But every woman shall borrow of her neighbour , and of her that sojourneth in her house , jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment : and ye shall put them upon your sons , and upon your daughters ; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians .
And afterward Moses and Aaron went in , and told Pharaoh , Thus saith the Lord God of Israel , Let my people go , that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness .
And Pharaoh said , Who is the Lord , that I should obey his voice to let Israel go ? I know not the Lord , neither will I let Israel go .
And they said , The God of the Hebrews hath met with us : let us go , we pray thee , three days ' journey into the desert , and sacrifice unto the Lord our God ; lest he fall upon us with pestilence , or with the sword .
And the king of Egypt said unto them , Wherefore do ye , Moses and Aaron , let the people from their works ? get you unto your burdens .
And Pharaoh said , Behold , the people of the land now are many , and ye make them rest from their burdens .
And Pharaoh commanded the same day the taskmasters of the people , and their officers , saying ,
Ye shall no more give the people straw to make brick , as heretofore : let them go and gather straw for themselves .
And the tale of the bricks , which they did make heretofore , ye shall lay upon them ; ye shall not diminish ought thereof : for they be idle ; therefore they cry , saying , Let us go and sacrifice to our God .
Let there more work be laid upon the men , that they may labour therein ; and let them not regard vain words .
And the taskmasters of the people went out , and their officers , and they spake to the people , saying , Thus saith Pharaoh , I will not give you straw .
Go ye , get you straw where ye can find it : yet not ought of your work shall be diminished .
So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw .
And the taskmasters hasted them , saying , Fulfil your works , your daily tasks , as when there was straw .
And the officers of the children of Israel , which Pharaoh ' s taskmasters had set over them , were beaten , and demanded , Wherefore have ye not fulfilled your task in making brick both yesterday and to day , as heretofore ?
Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried unto Pharaoh , saying , Wherefore dealest thou thus with thy servants ?
There is no straw given unto thy servants , and they say to us , Make brick : and , behold , thy servants are beaten ; but the fault is in thine own people .
But he said , Ye are idle , ye are idle : therefore ye say , Let us go and do sacrifice to the Lord .
Go therefore now , and work ; for there shall no straw be given you , yet shall ye deliver the tale of bricks .
And the officers of the children of Israel did see that they were in evil case , after it was said , Ye shall not minish ought from your bricks of your daily task .
And they met Moses and Aaron , who stood in the way , as they came forth from Pharaoh :
And they said unto them , The Lord look upon you , and judge ; because ye have made our savour to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh , and in the eyes of his servants , to put a sword in their hand to slay us .
And Moses returned unto the Lord , and said , Lord , wherefore hast thou so evil entreated this people ? why is it that thou hast sent me ?
For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name , he hath done evil to this people ; neither hast thou delivered thy people at all .
Then the Lord said unto Moses , Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh : for with a strong hand shall he let them go , and with a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land .
And God spake unto Moses , and said unto him , I am the Lord :
And I appeared unto Abraham , unto Isaac , and unto Jacob , by the name of God Almighty , but by my name Jehovah was I not known to them .
And I have also established my covenant with them , to give them the land of Canaan , the land of their pilgrimage , wherein they were strangers .
And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel , whom the Egyptians keep in bondage ; and I have remembered my covenant .
Wherefore say unto the children of Israel , I am the Lord , and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians , and I will rid you out of their bondage , and I will redeem you with a stretched out arm , and with great judgments :
And I will take you to me for a people , and I will be to you a God : and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God , which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians .
And I will bring you in unto the land , concerning the which I did swear to give it to Abraham , to Isaac , and to Jacob ; and I will give it you for an heritage : I am the Lord .
And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel : but they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit , and for cruel bondage .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , saying ,
Go in , speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt , that he let the children of Israel go out of his land .
And Moses spake before the Lord , saying , Behold , the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me ; how then shall Pharaoh hear me , who am of uncircumcised lips ?
And the Lord spake unto Moses and unto Aaron , and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel , and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt , to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt .
These be the heads of their fathers ' houses : The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel ; Hanoch , and Pallu , Hezron , and Carmi : these be the families of Reuben .
And the sons of Simeon ; Jemuel , and Jamin , and Ohad , and Jachin , and Zohar , and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman : these are the families of Simeon .
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations ; Gershon , and Kohath , and Merari : and the years of the life of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven years .
The sons of Gershon ; Libni , and Shimei , according to their families .
And the sons of Kohath ; Amram , and Izhar , and Hebron , and Uzziel : and the years of the life of Kohath were an hundred thirty and three years .
And the sons of Merari ; Mahli and Mushi : these are the families of Levi according to their generations .
And Amram took him Jochebed his father ' s sister to wife ; and she bare him Aaron and Moses : and the years of the life of Amram were an hundred and thirty and seven years .
And the sons of Izhar ; Korah , and Nepheg , and Zichri .
And the sons of Uzziel ; Mishael , and Elzaphan , and Zithri .
And Aaron took him Elisheba , daughter of Amminadab , sister of Nahshon , to wife ; and she bare him Nadab , and Abihu , Eleazar , and Ithamar .
And the sons of Korah ; Assir , and Elkanah , and Abiasaph : these are the families of the Korhites .
And Eleazar Aaron ' s son took him one of the daughters of Putiel to wife ; and she bare him Phinehas : these are the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families .
These are that Aaron and Moses , to whom the Lord said , Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies .
These are they which spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt , to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt : these are that Moses and Aaron .
And it came to pass on the day when the Lord spake unto Moses in the land of Egypt ,
That the Lord spake unto Moses , saying , I am the Lord : speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say unto thee .
And Moses said before the Lord , Behold , I am of uncircumcised lips , and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me ?
And the Lord said unto Moses , See , I have made thee a god to Pharaoh : and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet .
Thou shalt speak all that I command thee : and Aaron thy brother shall speak unto Pharaoh , that he send the children of Israel out of his land .
And I will harden Pharaoh ' s heart , and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt .
But Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you , that I may lay my hand upon Egypt , and bring forth mine armies , and my people the children of Israel , out of the land of Egypt by great judgments .
And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord , when I stretch forth mine hand upon Egypt , and bring out the children of Israel from among them .
And Moses and Aaron did as the Lord commanded them , so did they .
And Moses was fourscore years old , and Aaron fourscore and three years old , when they spake unto Pharaoh .
And the Lord spake unto Moses and unto Aaron , saying ,
When Pharaoh shall speak unto you , saying , Shew a miracle for you : then thou shalt say unto Aaron , Take thy rod , and cast it before Pharaoh , and it shall become a serpent .
And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh , and they did so as the Lord had commanded : and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh , and before his servants , and it became a serpent .
Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers : now the magicians of Egypt , they also did in like manner with their enchantments .
For they cast down every man his rod , and they became serpents : but Aaron ' s rod swallowed up their rods .
And he hardened Pharaoh ' s heart , that he hearkened not unto them ; as the Lord had said .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Pharaoh ' s heart is hardened , he refuseth to let the people go .
Get thee unto Pharaoh in the morning ; lo , he goeth out unto the water ; and thou shalt stand by the river ' s brink against he come ; and the rod which was turned to a serpent shalt thou take in thine hand .
And thou shalt say unto him , The Lord God of the Hebrews hath sent me unto thee , saying , Let my people go , that they may serve me in the wilderness : and , behold , hitherto thou wouldest not hear .
Thus saith the Lord , In this thou shalt know that I am the Lord : behold , I will smite with the rod that is in mine hand upon the waters which are in the river , and they shall be turned to blood .
And the fish that is in the river shall die , and the river shall stink ; and the Egyptians shall lothe to drink of the water of the river .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , Say unto Aaron , Take thy rod , and stretch out thine hand upon the waters of Egypt , upon their streams , upon their rivers , and upon their ponds , and upon all their pools of water , that they may become blood ; and that there may be blood throughout all the land of Egypt , both in vessels of wood , and in vessels of stone .
And Moses and Aaron did so , as the Lord commanded ; and he lifted up the rod , and smote the waters that were in the river , in the sight of Pharaoh , and in the sight of his servants ; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood .
And the fish that was in the river died ; and the river stank , and the Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river ; and there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt .
And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments : and Pharaoh ' s heart was hardened , neither did he hearken unto them ; as the Lord had said .
And Pharaoh turned and went into his house , neither did he set his heart to this also .
And all the Egyptians digged round about the river for water to drink ; for they could not drink of the water of the river .
And seven days were fulfilled , after that the Lord had smitten the river .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , Go unto Pharaoh , and say unto him , Thus saith the Lord , Let my people go , that they may serve me .
And if thou refuse to let them go , behold , I will smite all thy borders with frogs :
And the river shall bring forth frogs abundantly , which shall go up and come into thine house , and into thy bedchamber , and upon thy bed , and into the house of thy servants , and upon thy people , and into thine ovens , and into thy kneadingtroughs :
And the frogs shall come up both on thee , and upon thy people , and upon all thy servants .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , Say unto Aaron , Stretch forth thine hand with thy rod over the streams , over the rivers , and over the ponds , and cause frogs to come up upon the land of Egypt .
And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt ; and the frogs came up , and covered the land of Egypt .
And the magicians did so with their enchantments , and brought up frogs upon the land of Egypt .
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron , and said , Entreat the Lord , that he may take away the frogs from me , and from my people ; and I will let the people go , that they may do sacrifice unto the Lord .
And Moses said unto Pharaoh , Glory over me : when shall I entreat for thee , and for thy servants , and for thy people , to destroy the frogs from thee and thy houses , that they may remain in the river only ?
And he said , To morrow . And he said , Be it according to thy word : that thou mayest know that there is none like unto the Lord our God .
And the frogs shall depart from thee , and from thy houses , and from thy servants , and from thy people ; they shall remain in the river only .
And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh : and Moses cried unto the Lord because of the frogs which he had brought against Pharaoh .
And the Lord did according to the word of Moses ; and the frogs died out of the houses , out of the villages , and out of the fields .
And they gathered them together upon heaps : and the land stank .
But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite , he hardened his heart , and hearkened not unto them ; as the Lord had said .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Say unto Aaron , Stretch out thy rod , and smite the dust of the land , that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt .
And they did so ; for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod , and smote the dust of the earth , and it became lice in man , and in beast ; all the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land of Egypt .
And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth lice , but they could not : so there were lice upon man , and upon beast .
Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh , This is the finger of God : and Pharaoh ' s heart was hardened , and he hearkened not unto them ; as the Lord had said .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Rise up early in the morning , and stand before Pharaoh ; lo , he cometh forth to the water ; and say unto him , Thus saith the Lord , Let my people go , that they may serve me .
Else , if thou wilt not let my people go , behold , I will send swarms of flies upon thee , and upon thy servants , and upon thy people , and into thy houses : and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of flies , and also the ground whereon they are .
And I will sever in that day the land of Goshen , in which my people dwell , that no swarms of flies shall be there ; to the end thou mayest know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth .
And I will put a division between my people and thy people : to morrow shall this sign be .
And the Lord did so ; and there came a grievous swarm of flies into the house of Pharaoh , and into his servants ' houses , and into all the land of Egypt : the land was corrupted by reason of the swarm of flies .
And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron , and said , Go ye , sacrifice to your God in the land .
And Moses said , It is not meet so to do ; for we shall sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians to the Lord our God : lo , shall we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes , and will they not stone us ?
We will go three days ' journey into the wilderness , and sacrifice to the Lord our God , as he shall command us .
And Pharaoh said , I will let you go , that ye may sacrifice to the Lord your God in the wilderness ; only ye shall not go very far away : entreat for me .
And Moses said , Behold , I go out from thee , and I will entreat the Lord that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh , from his servants , and from his people , to morrow : but let not Pharaoh deal deceitfully any more in not letting the people go to sacrifice to the Lord .
And Moses went out from Pharaoh , and entreated the Lord .
And the Lord did according to the word of Moses ; and he removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh , from his servants , and from his people ; there remained not one .
And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also , neither would he let the people go .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go in unto Pharaoh : for I have hardened his heart , and the heart of his servants , that I might shew these my signs before him :
And that thou mayest tell in the ears of thy son , and of thy son ' s son , what things I have wrought in Egypt , and my signs which I have done among them ; that ye may know how that I am the Lord .
And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh , and said unto him , Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrews , How long wilt thou refuse to humble thyself before me ? let my people go , that they may serve me .
Else , if thou refuse to let my people go , behold , to morrow will I bring the locusts into thy coast :
And they shall cover the face of the earth , that one cannot be able to see the earth : and they shall eat the residue of that which is escaped , which remaineth unto you from the hail , and shall eat every tree which groweth for you out of the field :
And they shall fill thy houses , and the houses of all thy servants , and the houses of all the Egyptians ; which neither thy fathers , nor thy fathers ' fathers have seen , since the day that they were upon the earth unto this day . And he turned himself , and went out from Pharaoh .
And Pharaoh ' s servants said unto him , How long shall this man be a snare unto us ? let the men go , that they may serve the Lord their God : knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed ?
And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh : and he said unto them , Go , serve the Lord your God : but who are they that shall go ?
And Moses said , We will go with our young and with our old , with our sons and with our daughters , with our flocks and with our herds will we go ; for we must hold a feast unto the Lord .
And he said unto them , Let the Lord be so with you , as I will let you go , and your little ones : look to it ; for evil is before you .
Not so : go now ye that are men , and serve the Lord ; for that ye did desire . And they were driven out from Pharaoh ' s presence .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Stretch out thine hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts , that they may come up upon the land of Egypt , and eat every herb of the land , even all that the hail hath left .
And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt , and the Lord brought an east wind upon the land all that day , and all that night ; and when it was morning , the east wind brought the locusts .
And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt , and rested in all the coasts of Egypt : very grievous were they ; before them there were no such locusts as they , neither after them shall be such .
For they covered the face of the whole earth , so that the land was darkened ; and they did eat every herb of the land , and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left : and there remained not any green thing in the trees , or in the herbs of the field , through all the land of Egypt .
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste ; and he said , I have sinned against the Lord your God , and against you .
Now therefore forgive , I pray thee , my sin only this once , and entreat the Lord your God , that he may take away from me this death only .
And he went out from Pharaoh , and entreated the Lord .
And the Lord turned a mighty strong west wind , which took away the locusts , and cast them into the Red sea ; there remained not one locust in all the coasts of Egypt .
But the Lord hardened Pharaoh ' s heart , so that he would not let the children of Israel go .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Stretch out thine hand toward heaven , that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt , even darkness which may be felt .
And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven ; and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days :
They saw not one another , neither rose any from his place for three days : but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings .
And Pharaoh called unto Moses , and said , Go ye , serve the Lord ; only let your flocks and your herds be stayed : let your little ones also go with you .
And Moses said , Thou must give us also sacrifices and burnt offerings , that we may sacrifice unto the Lord our God .
Our cattle also shall go with us ; there shall not an hoof be left behind ; for thereof must we take to serve the Lord our God ; and we know not with what we must serve the Lord , until we come thither .
But the Lord hardened Pharaoh ' s heart , and he would not let them go .
And Pharaoh said unto him , Get thee from me , take heed to thyself , see my face no more ; for in that day thou seest my face thou shalt die .
And Moses said , Thou hast spoken well , I will see thy face again no more .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Yet will I bring one plague more upon Pharaoh , and upon Egypt ; afterwards he will let you go hence : when he shall let you go , he shall surely thrust you out hence altogether .
Speak now in the ears of the people , and let every man borrow of his neighbour , and every woman of her neighbour , jewels of silver , and jewels of gold .
And the Lord gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians . Moreover the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt , in the sight of Pharaoh ' s servants , and in the sight of the people .
And Moses said , Thus saith the Lord , About midnight will I go out into the midst of Egypt :
And all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die , from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his throne , even unto the firstborn of the maidservant that is behind the mill ; and all the firstborn of beasts .
And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt , such as there was none like it , nor shall be like it any more .
But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue , against man or beast : that ye may know how that the Lord doth put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel .
And all these thy servants shall come down unto me , and bow down themselves unto me , saying , Get thee out , and all the people that follow thee : and after that I will go out . And he went out from Pharaoh in a great anger .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you ; that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt .
And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh : and the Lord hardened Pharaoh ' s heart , so that he would not let the children of Israel go out of his land .
And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt , saying ,
This month shall be unto you the beginning of months : it shall be the first month of the year to you .
Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel , saying , In the tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb , according to the house of their fathers , a lamb for an house :
And if the household be too little for the lamb , let him and his neighbour next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls ; every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb .
Your lamb shall be without blemish , a male of the first year : ye shall take it out from the sheep , or from the goats :
And ye shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month : and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening .
And they shall take of the blood , and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper door post of the houses , wherein they shall eat it .
And they shall eat the flesh in that night , roast with fire , and unleavened bread ; and with bitter herbs they shall eat it .
Eat not of it raw , nor sodden at all with water , but roast with fire ; his head with his legs , and with the purtenance thereof .
And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning ; and that which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire .
And thus shall ye eat it ; with your loins girded , your shoes on your feet , and your staff in your hand ; and ye shall eat it in haste : it is the Lord ' s passover .
For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night , and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt , both man and beast ; and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment : I am the Lord .
And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are : and when I see the blood , I will pass over you , and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you , when I smite the land of Egypt .
And this day shall be unto you for a memorial ; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations ; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever .
Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread ; even the first day ye shall put away leaven out of your houses : for whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day , that soul shall be cut off from Israel .
And in the first day there shall be an holy convocation , and in the seventh day there shall be an holy convocation to you ; no manner of work shall be done in them , save that which every man must eat , that only may be done of you .
And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread ; for in this selfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt : therefore shall ye observe this day in your generations by an ordinance for ever .
In the first month , on the fourteenth day of the month at even , ye shall eat unleavened bread , until the one and twentieth day of the month at even .
Seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses : for whosoever eateth that which is leavened , even that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel , whether he be a stranger , or born in the land .
Ye shall eat nothing leavened ; in all your habitations shall ye eat unleavened bread .
Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel , and said unto them , Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families , and kill the passover .
And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop , and dip it in the blood that is in the basin , and strike the lintel and the two side posts with the blood that is in the basin ; and none of you shall go out at the door of his house until the morning .
For the Lord will pass through to smite the Egyptians ; and when he seeth the blood upon the lintel , and on the two side posts , the Lord will pass over the door , and will not suffer the destroyer to come in unto your houses to smite you .
And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons for ever .
And it shall come to pass , when ye be come to the land which the Lord will give you , according as he hath promised , that ye shall keep this service .
And it shall come to pass , when your children shall say unto you , What mean ye by this service ?
That ye shall say , It is the sacrifice of the Lord ' s passover , who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt , when he smote the Egyptians , and delivered our houses . And the people bowed the head and worshipped .
And the children of Israel went away , and did as the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron , so did they .
And it came to pass , that at midnight the Lord smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt , from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat on his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that was in the dungeon ; and all the firstborn of cattle .
And Pharaoh rose up in the night , he , and all his servants , and all the Egyptians ; and there was a great cry in Egypt ; for there was not a house where there was not one dead .
And he called for Moses and Aaron by night , and said , Rise up , and get you forth from among my people , both ye and the children of Israel ; and go , serve the Lord , as ye have said .
Also take your flocks and your herds , as ye have said , and be gone ; and bless me also .
And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people , that they might send them out of the land in haste ; for they said , We be all dead men .
And the people took their dough before it was leavened , their kneadingtroughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders .
And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses ; and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver , and jewels of gold , and raiment :
And the Lord gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians , so that they lent unto them such things as they required . And they spoiled the Egyptians .
And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth , about six hundred thousand on foot that were men , beside children .
And a mixed multitude went up also with them ; and flocks , and herds , even very much cattle .
And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought forth out of Egypt , for it was not leavened ; because they were thrust out of Egypt , and could not tarry , neither had they prepared for themselves any victual .
Now the sojourning of the children of Israel , who dwelt in Egypt , was four hundred and thirty years .
And it came to pass at the end of the four hundred and thirty years , even the selfsame day it came to pass , that all the hosts of the Lord went out from the land of Egypt .
It is a night to be much observed unto the Lord for bringing them out from the land of Egypt : this is that night of the Lord to be observed of all the children of Israel in their generations .
And the Lord said unto Moses and Aaron , This is the ordinance of the passover : There shall no stranger eat thereof :
But every man ' s servant that is bought for money , when thou hast circumcised him , then shall he eat thereof .
A foreigner and an hired servant shall not eat thereof .
In one house shall it be eaten ; thou shalt not carry forth ought of the flesh abroad out of the house ; neither shall ye break a bone thereof .
All the congregation of Israel shall keep it .
And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee , and will keep the passover to the Lord , let all his males be circumcised , and then let him come near and keep it ; and he shall be as one that is born in the land : for no uncircumcised person shall eat thereof .
One law shall be to him that is homeborn , and unto the stranger that sojourneth among you . 50Thus did all the children of Israel ; as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron , so did they . 51And it came to pass the selfsame day , that the Lord did bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , saying ,
Sanctify unto me all the firstborn , whatsoever openeth the womb among the children of Israel , both of man and of beast : it is mine .
And Moses said unto the people , Remember this day , in which ye came out from Egypt , out of the house of bondage ; for by strength of hand the Lord brought you out from this place : there shall no leavened bread be eaten .
This day came ye out in the month Abib .
And it shall be when the Lord shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanites , and the Hittites , and the Amorites , and the Hivites , and the Jebusites , which he sware unto thy fathers to give thee , a land flowing with milk and honey , that thou shalt keep this service in this month .
Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread , and in the seventh day shall be a feast to the Lord .
Unleavened bread shall be eaten seven days ; and there shall no leavened bread be seen with thee , neither shall there be leaven seen with thee in all thy quarters .
And thou shalt shew thy son in that day , saying , This is done because of that which the Lord did unto me when I came forth out of Egypt .
And it shall be for a sign unto thee upon thine hand , and for a memorial between thine eyes , that the Lord ' s law may be in thy mouth : for with a strong hand hath the Lord brought thee out of Egypt .
Thou shalt therefore keep this ordinance in his season from year to year .
And it shall be when the Lord shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanites , as he sware unto thee and to thy fathers , and shall give it thee ,
That thou shalt set apart unto the Lord all that openeth the matrix , and every firstling that cometh of a beast which thou hast ; the males shall be the Lord ' s .
And every firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb ; and if thou wilt not redeem it , then thou shalt break his neck : and all the firstborn of man among thy children shalt thou redeem .
And it shall be when thy son asketh thee in time to come , saying , What is this ? that thou shalt say unto him , By strength of hand the Lord brought us out from Egypt , from the house of bondage :
And it came to pass , when Pharaoh would hardly let us go , that the Lord slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt , both the firstborn of man , and the firstborn of beast : therefore I sacrifice to the Lord all that openeth the matrix , being males ; but all the firstborn of my children I redeem .
And it shall be for a token upon thine hand , and for frontlets between thine eyes : for by strength of hand the Lord brought us forth out of Egypt .
And it came to pass , when Pharaoh had let the people go , that God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines , although that was near ; for God said , Lest peradventure the people repent when they see war , and they return to Egypt :
But God led the people about , through the way of the wilderness of the Red sea : and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt .
And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him : for he had straitly sworn the children of Israel , saying , God will surely visit you ; and ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you .
And they took their journey from Succoth , and encamped in Etham , in the edge of the wilderness .
And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud , to lead them the way ; and by night in a pillar of fire , to give them light ; to go by day and night :
He took not away the pillar of the cloud by day , nor the pillar of fire by night , from before the people .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , saying ,
Speak unto the children of Israel , that they turn and encamp before Pi–hahiroth , between Migdol and the sea , over against Baal–zephon : before it shall ye encamp by the sea .
For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel , They are entangled in the land , the wilderness hath shut them in .
And I will harden Pharaoh ' s heart , that he shall follow after them ; and I will be honoured upon Pharaoh , and upon all his host ; that the Egyptians may know that I am the Lord . And they did so .
And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled : and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people , and they said , Why have we done this , that we have let Israel go from serving us ?
And he made ready his chariot , and took his people with him :
And he took six hundred chosen chariots , and all the chariots of Egypt , and captains over every one of them .
And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt , and he pursued after the children of Israel : and the children of Israel went out with an high hand .
But the Egyptians pursued after them , all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh , and his horsemen , and his army , and overtook them encamping by the sea , beside Pi–hahiroth , before Baal–zephon .
And when Pharaoh drew nigh , the children of Israel lifted up their eyes , and , behold , the Egyptians marched after them ; and they were sore afraid : and the children of Israel cried out unto the Lord .
And they said unto Moses , Because there were no graves in Egypt , hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness ? wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us , to carry us forth out of Egypt ?
Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt , saying , Let us alone , that we may serve the Egyptians ? For it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians , than that we should die in the wilderness .
And Moses said unto the people , Fear ye not , stand still , and see the salvation of the Lord , which he will shew to you to day : for the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day , ye shall see them again no more for ever .
The Lord shall fight for you , and ye shall hold your peace .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Wherefore criest thou unto me ? speak unto the children of Israel , that they go forward :
But lift thou up thy rod , and stretch out thine hand over the sea , and divide it : and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea .
And I , behold , I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians , and they shall follow them : and I will get me honour upon Pharaoh , and upon all his host , upon his chariots , and upon his horsemen .
And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord , when I have gotten me honour upon Pharaoh , upon his chariots , and upon his horsemen .
And the angel of God , which went before the camp of Israel , removed and went behind them ; and the pillar of the cloud went from before their face , and stood behind them :
And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel ; and it was a cloud and darkness to them , but it gave light by night to these : so that the one came not near the other all the night .
And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea ; and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night , and made the sea dry land , and the waters were divided .
And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground : and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand , and on their left .
And the Egyptians pursued , and went in after them to the midst of the sea , even all Pharaoh ' s horses , his chariots , and his horsemen .
And it came to pass , that in the morning watch the Lord looked unto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the cloud , and troubled the host of the Egyptians ,
And took off their chariot wheels , that they drave them heavily : so that the Egyptians said , Let us flee from the face of Israel ; for the Lord fighteth for them against the Egyptians .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Stretch out thine hand over the sea , that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians , upon their chariots , and upon their horsemen .
And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea , and the sea returned to his strength when the morning appeared ; and the Egyptians fled against it ; and the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea .
And the waters returned , and covered the chariots , and the horsemen , and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them ; there remained not so much as one of them .
But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea ; and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand , and on their left .
Thus the Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians ; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea shore .
And Israel saw that great work which the Lord did upon the Egyptians : and the people feared the Lord , and believed the Lord , and his servant Moses .
And they took their journey from Elim , and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin , which is between Elim and Sinai , on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt .
And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness :
And the children of Israel said unto them , Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt , when we sat by the flesh pots , and when we did eat bread to the full ; for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness , to kill this whole assembly with hunger .
Then said the Lord unto Moses , Behold , I will rain bread from heaven for you ; and the people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day , that I may prove them , whether they will walk in my law , or no .
And it shall come to pass , that on the sixth day they shall prepare that which they bring in ; and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily .
And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel , At even , then ye shall know that the Lord hath brought you out from the land of Egypt :
And in the morning , then ye shall see the glory of the Lord ; for that he heareth your murmurings against the Lord : and what are we , that ye murmur against us ?
And Moses said , This shall be , when the Lord shall give you in the evening flesh to eat , and in the morning bread to the full ; for that the Lord heareth your murmurings which ye murmur against him : and what are we ? your murmurings are not against us , but against the Lord .
And Moses spake unto Aaron , Say unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , Come near before the Lord : for he hath heard your murmurings .
And it came to pass , as Aaron spake unto the whole congregation of the children of Israel , that they looked toward the wilderness , and , behold , the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , saying ,
I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel : speak unto them , saying , At even ye shall eat flesh , and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread ; and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God .
And it came to pass , that at even the quails came up , and covered the camp : and in the morning the dew lay round about the host .
And when the dew that lay was gone up , behold , upon the face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing , as small as the hoar frost on the ground .
And when the children of Israel saw it , they said one to another , It is manna : for they wist not what it was . And Moses said unto them , This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat .
This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded , Gather of it every man according to his eating , an omer for every man , according to the number of your persons ; take ye every man for them which are in his tents .
And the children of Israel did so , and gathered , some more , some less .
And when they did mete it with an omer , he that gathered much had nothing over , and he that gathered little had no lack ; they gathered every man according to his eating .
And Moses said , Let no man leave of it till the morning .
Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto Moses ; but some of them left of it until the morning , and it bred worms , and stank : and Moses was wroth with them .
And they gathered it every morning , every man according to his eating : and when the sun waxed hot , it melted .
And it came to pass , that on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread , two omers for one man : and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses .
And he said unto them , This is that which the Lord hath said , To morrow is the rest of the holy sabbath unto the Lord : bake that which ye will bake to day , and seethe that ye will seethe ; and that which remaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the morning .
And they laid it up till the morning , as Moses bade : and it did not stink , neither was there any worm therein .
And Moses said , Eat that to day ; for to day is a sabbath unto the Lord : to day ye shall not find it in the field .
Six days ye shall gather it ; but on the seventh day , which is the sabbath , in it there shall be none .
And it came to pass , that there went out some of the people on the seventh day for to gather , and they found none .
And the Lord said unto Moses , How long refuse ye to keep my commandments and my laws ?
See , for that the Lord hath given you the sabbath , therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of two days ; abide ye every man in his place , let no man go out of his place on the seventh day .
So the people rested on the seventh day .
And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna : and it was like coriander seed , white ; and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey .
And Moses said , This is the thing which the Lord commandeth , Fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations ; that they may see the bread wherewith I have fed you in the wilderness , when I brought you forth from the land of Egypt .
And Moses said unto Aaron , Take a pot , and put an omer full of manna therein , and lay it up before the Lord , to be kept for your generations .
As the Lord commanded Moses , so Aaron laid it up before the Testimony , to be kept .
And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years , until they came to a land inhabited ; they did eat manna , until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan .
Now an omer is the tenth part of an ephah .
And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of Sin , after their journeys , according to the commandment of the Lord , and pitched in Rephidim : and there was no water for the people to drink .
Wherefore the people did chide with Moses , and said , Give us water that we may drink . And Moses said unto them , Why chide ye with me ? wherefore do ye tempt the Lord ?
And the people thirsted there for water ; and the people murmured against Moses , and said , Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt , to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst ?
And Moses cried unto the Lord , saying , What shall I do unto this people ? they be almost ready to stone me .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go on before the people , and take with thee of the elders of Israel ; and thy rod , wherewith thou smotest the river , take in thine hand , and go .
Behold , I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb ; and thou shalt smite the rock , and there shall come water out of it , that the people may drink . And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel .
And he called the name of the place Massah , and Meribah , because of the chiding of the children of Israel , and because they tempted the Lord , saying , Is the Lord among us , or not ?
Then came Amalek , and fought with Israel in Rephidim .
And Moses said unto Joshua , Choose us out men , and go out , fight with Amalek : to morrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in mine hand .
So Joshua did as Moses had said to him , and fought with Amalek : and Moses , Aaron , and Hur went up to the top of the hill .
And it came to pass , when Moses held up his hand , that Israel prevailed : and when he let down his hand , Amalek prevailed .
But Moses ' hands were heavy ; and they took a stone , and put it under him , and he sat thereon ; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands , the one on the one side , and the other on the other side ; and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun .
And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Write this for a memorial in a book , and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua : for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven .
And Moses built an altar , and called the name of it Jehovah–nissi :
For he said , Because the Lord hath sworn that the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation .
When Jethro , the priest of Midian , Moses ' father in law , heard of all that God had done for Moses , and for Israel his people , and that the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt ;
Then Jethro , Moses ' father in law , took Zipporah , Moses ' wife , after he had sent her back ,
And her two sons ; of which the name of the one was Gershom ; for he said , I have been an alien in a strange land :
And the name of the other was Eliezer ; for the God of my father , said he , was mine help , and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh :
And Jethro , Moses ' father in law , came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into the wilderness , where he encamped at the mount of God :
And he said unto Moses , I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee , and thy wife , and her two sons with her .
And Moses went out to meet his father in law , and did obeisance , and kissed him ; and they asked each other of their welfare ; and they came into the tent .
And Moses told his father in law all that the Lord had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel ' s sake , and all the travail that had come upon them by the way , and how the Lord delivered them .
And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the Lord had done to Israel , whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians .
And Jethro said , Blessed be the Lord , who hath delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians , and out of the hand of Pharaoh , who hath delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians .
Now I know that the Lord is greater than all gods : for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly he was above them .
And Jethro , Moses ' father in law , took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God : and Aaron came , and all the elders of Israel , to eat bread with Moses ' father in law before God .
And it came to pass on the morrow , that Moses sat to judge the people : and the people stood by Moses from the morning unto the evening .
And when Moses ' father in law saw all that he did to the people , he said , What is this thing that thou doest to the people ? why sittest thou thyself alone , and all the people stand by thee from morning unto even ?
And Moses said unto his father in law , Because the people come unto me to enquire of God :
When they have a matter , they come unto me ; and I judge between one and another , and I do make them know the statutes of God , and his laws .
And Moses ' father in law said unto him , The thing that thou doest is not good .
Thou wilt surely wear away , both thou , and this people that is with thee : for this thing is too heavy for thee ; thou art not able to perform it thyself alone .
Hearken now unto my voice , I will give thee counsel , and God shall be with thee : Be thou for the people to God -ward , that thou mayest bring the causes unto God :
And thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws , and shalt shew them the way wherein they must walk , and the work that they must do .
Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men , such as fear God , men of truth , hating covetousness ; and place such over them , to be rulers of thousands , and rulers of hundreds , rulers of fifties , and rulers of tens :
And let them judge the people at all seasons : and it shall be , that every great matter they shall bring unto thee , but every small matter they shall judge : so shall it be easier for thyself , and they shall bear the burden with thee .
If thou shalt do this thing , and God command thee so , then thou shalt be able to endure , and all this people shall also go to their place in peace .
So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father in law , and did all that he had said .
And Moses chose able men out of all Israel , and made them heads over the people , rulers of thousands , rulers of hundreds , rulers of fifties , and rulers of tens .
And they judged the people at all seasons : the hard causes they brought unto Moses , but every small matter they judged themselves .
And Moses let his father in law depart ; and he went his way into his own land .
In the third month , when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt , the same day came they into the wilderness of Sinai .
For they were departed from Rephidim , and were come to the desert of Sinai , and had pitched in the wilderness ; and there Israel camped before the mount .
And Moses went up unto God , and the Lord called unto him out of the mountain , saying , Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob , and tell the children of Israel ;
Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians , and how I bare you on eagles ' wings , and brought you unto myself .
Now therefore , if ye will obey my voice indeed , and keep my covenant , then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people : for all the earth is mine :
And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests , and an holy nation . These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel .
And Moses came and called for the elders of the people , and laid before their faces all these words which the Lord commanded him .
And all the people answered together , and said , All that the Lord hath spoken we will do . And Moses returned the words of the people unto the Lord .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Lo , I come unto thee in a thick cloud , that the people may hear when I speak with thee , and believe thee for ever . And Moses told the words of the people unto the Lord .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go unto the people , and sanctify them to day and to morrow , and let them wash their clothes ,
And be ready against the third day : for the third day the Lord will come down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai .
And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about , saying , Take heed to yourselves , that ye go not up into the mount , or touch the border of it : whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to death :
There shall not an hand touch it , but he shall surely be stoned , or shot through ; whether it be beast or man , it shall not live : when the trumpet soundeth long , they shall come up to the mount .
And Moses went down from the mount unto the people , and sanctified the people ; and they washed their clothes .
And he said unto the people , Be ready against the third day : come not at your wives .
And it came to pass on the third day in the morning , that there were thunders and lightnings , and a thick cloud upon the mount , and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud ; so that all the people that was in the camp trembled .
And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God ; and they stood at the nether part of the mount .
And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke , because the Lord descended upon it in fire : and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace , and the whole mount quaked greatly .
And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long , and waxed louder and louder , Moses spake , and God answered him by a voice .
And the Lord came down upon mount Sinai , on the top of the mount : and the Lord called Moses up to the top of the mount ; and Moses went up .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go down , charge the people , lest they break through unto the Lord to gaze , and many of them perish .
And let the priests also , which come near to the Lord , sanctify themselves , lest the Lord break forth upon them .
And Moses said unto the Lord , The people cannot come up to mount Sinai : for thou chargedst us , saying , Set bounds about the mount , and sanctify it .
And the Lord said unto him , Away , get thee down , and thou shalt come up , thou , and Aaron with thee : but let not the priests and the people break through to come up unto the Lord , lest he break forth upon them .
So Moses went down unto the people , and spake unto them .
And God spake all these words , saying ,
I am the Lord thy God , which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt , out of the house of bondage .
Thou shalt have no other gods before me .
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image , or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above , or that is in the earth beneath , or that is in the water under the earth :
Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them , nor serve them : for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God , visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me ;
And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me , and keep my commandments .
Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain ; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain .
Remember the sabbath day , to keep it holy .
Six days shalt thou labour , and do all thy work :
But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God : in it thou shalt not do any work , thou , nor thy son , nor thy daughter , thy manservant , nor thy maidservant , nor thy cattle , nor thy stranger that is within thy gates :
For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth , the sea , and all that in them is , and rested the seventh day : wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day , and hallowed it .
Honour thy father and thy mother : that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee .
Thou shalt not kill .
Thou shalt not commit adultery .
Thou shalt not steal .
Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour .
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour ' s house , thou shalt not covet thy neighbour ' s wife , nor his manservant , nor his maidservant , nor his ox , nor his ass , nor any thing that is thy neighbour ' s .
And all the people saw the thunderings , and the lightnings , and the noise of the trumpet , and the mountain smoking : and when the people saw it , they removed , and stood afar off .
And they said unto Moses , Speak thou with us , and we will hear : but let not God speak with us , lest we die .
And Moses said unto the people , Fear not : for God is come to prove you , and that his fear may be before your faces , that ye sin not .
And the people stood afar off , and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel , Ye have seen that I have talked with you from heaven .
Ye shall not make with me gods of silver , neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold .
An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me , and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt offerings , and thy peace offerings , thy sheep , and thine oxen : in all places where I record my name I will come unto thee , and I will bless thee .
And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone , thou shalt not build it of hewn stone : for if thou lift up thy tool upon it , thou hast polluted it .
Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar , that thy nakedness be not discovered thereon .
And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband ' s , a mighty man of wealth , of the family of Elimelech ; and his name was Boaz .
And Ruth the Moabitess said unto Naomi , Let me now go to the field , and glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall find grace . And she said unto her , Go , my daughter .
And she went , and came , and gleaned in the field after the reapers : and her hap was to light on a part of the field belonging unto Boaz , who was of the kindred of Elimelech .
And , behold , Boaz came from Beth–lehem , and said unto the reapers , The Lord be with you . And they answered him , The Lord bless thee .
Then said Boaz unto his servant that was set over the reapers , Whose damsel is this ?
And the servant that was set over the reapers answered and said , It is the Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab :
And she said , I pray you , let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves : so she came , and hath continued even from the morning until now , that she tarried a little in the house .
Then said Boaz unto Ruth , Hearest thou not , my daughter ? Go not to glean in another field , neither go from hence , but abide here fast by my maidens :
Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reap , and go thou after them : have I not charged the young men that they shall not touch thee ? and when thou art athirst , go unto the vessels , and drink of that which the young men have drawn .
Then she fell on her face , and bowed herself to the ground , and said unto him , Why have I found grace in thine eyes , that thou shouldest take knowledge of me , seeing I am a stranger ?
And Boaz answered and said unto her , It hath fully been shewed me , all that thou hast done unto thy mother in law since the death of thine husband : and how thou hast left thy father and thy mother , and the land of thy nativity , and art come unto a people which thou knewest not heretofore .
The Lord recompense thy work , and a full reward be given thee of the Lord God of Israel , under whose wings thou art come to trust .
Then she said , Let me find favour in thy sight , my lord ; for that thou hast comforted me , and for that thou hast spoken friendly unto thine handmaid , though I be not like unto one of thine handmaidens .
And Boaz said unto her , At mealtime come thou hither , and eat of the bread , and dip thy morsel in the vinegar . And she sat beside the reapers : and he reached her parched corn , and she did eat , and was sufficed , and left .
And when she was risen up to glean , Boaz commanded his young men , saying , Let her glean even among the sheaves , and reproach her not :
And let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her , and leave them , that she may glean them , and rebuke her not .
So she gleaned in the field until even , and beat out that she had gleaned : and it was about an ephah of barley .
And she took it up , and went into the city : and her mother in law saw what she had gleaned : and she brought forth , and gave to her that she had reserved after she was sufficed .
And her mother in law said unto her , Where hast thou gleaned to day ? and where wroughtest thou ? blessed be he that did take knowledge of thee . And she shewed her mother in law with whom she had wrought , and said , The man ' s name with whom I wrought to day is Boaz .
And Naomi said unto her daughter in law , Blessed be he of the Lord , who hath not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead . And Naomi said unto her , The man is near of kin unto us , one of our next kinsmen .
And Ruth the Moabitess said , He said unto me also , Thou shalt keep fast by my young men , until they have ended all my harvest .
And Naomi said unto Ruth her daughter in law , It is good , my daughter , that thou go out with his maidens , that they meet thee not in any other field .
So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end of barley harvest and of wheat harvest ; and dwelt with her mother in law .
Then Naomi her mother in law said unto her , My daughter , shall I not seek rest for thee , that it may be well with thee ?
And now is not Boaz of our kindred , with whose maidens thou wast ? Behold , he winnoweth barley to night in the threshingfloor .
Wash thyself therefore , and anoint thee , and put thy raiment upon thee , and get thee down to the floor : but make not thyself known unto the man , until he shall have done eating and drinking .
And it shall be , when he lieth down , that thou shalt mark the place where he shall lie , and thou shalt go in , and uncover his feet , and lay thee down ; and he will tell thee what thou shalt do .
And she said unto her , All that thou sayest unto me I will do .
And she went down unto the floor , and did according to all that her mother in law bade her .
And when Boaz had eaten and drunk , and his heart was merry , he went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn : and she came softly , and uncovered his feet , and laid her down .
And it came to pass at midnight , that the man was afraid , and turned himself : and , behold , a woman lay at his feet .
And he said , Who art thou ? And she answered , I am Ruth thine handmaid : spread therefore thy skirt over thine handmaid ; for thou art a near kinsman .
And he said , Blessed be thou of the Lord , my daughter : for thou hast shewed more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning , inasmuch as thou followedst not young men , whether poor or rich .
And now , my daughter , fear not ; I will do to thee all that thou requirest : for all the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman .
And now it is true that I am thy near kinsman : howbeit there is a kinsman nearer than I .
Tarry this night , and it shall be in the morning , that if he will perform unto thee the part of a kinsman , well ; let him do the kinsman ' s part : but if he will not do the part of a kinsman to thee , then will I do the part of a kinsman to thee , as the Lord liveth : lie down until the morning .
And she lay at his feet until the morning : and she rose up before one could know another . And he said , Let it not be known that a woman came into the floor .
Also he said , Bring the veil that thou hast upon thee , and hold it . And when she held it , he measured six measures of barley , and laid it on her : and she went into the city .
And when she came to her mother in law , she said , Who art thou , my daughter ? And she told her all that the man had done to her .
And she said , These six measures of barley gave he me ; for he said to me , Go not empty unto thy mother in law .
Then said she , Sit still , my daughter , until thou know how the matter will fall : for the man will not be in rest , until he have finished the thing this day .
And the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli . And the word of the Lord was precious in those days ; there was no open vision .
And it came to pass at that time , when Eli was laid down in his place , and his eyes began to wax dim , that he could not see ;
And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord , where the ark of God was , and Samuel was laid down to sleep ;
That the Lord called Samuel : and he answered , Here am I .
And he ran unto Eli , and said , Here am I ; for thou calledst me . And he said , I called not ; lie down again . And he went and lay down .
And the Lord called yet again , Samuel . And Samuel arose and went to Eli , and said , Here am I ; for thou didst call me . And he answered , I called not , my son ; lie down again .
Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord , neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him .
And the Lord called Samuel again the third time . And he arose and went to Eli , and said , Here am I ; for thou didst call me . And Eli perceived that the Lord had called the child .
Therefore Eli said unto Samuel , Go , lie down : and it shall be , if he call thee , that thou shalt say , Speak , Lord ; for thy servant heareth . So Samuel went and lay down in his place .
And the Lord came , and stood , and called as at other times , Samuel , Samuel . Then Samuel answered , Speak ; for thy servant heareth .
And the Lord said to Samuel , Behold , I will do a thing in Israel , at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle .
In that day I will perform against Eli all things which I have spoken concerning his house : when I begin , I will also make an end .
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth ; because his sons made themselves vile , and he restrained them not .
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli , that the iniquity of Eli ' s house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offering for ever .
And Samuel lay until the morning , and opened the doors of the house of the Lord . And Samuel feared to shew Eli the vision .
Then Eli called Samuel , and said , Samuel , my son . And he answered , Here am I .
And he said , What is the thing that the Lord hath said unto thee ? I pray thee hide it not from me : God do so to thee , and more also , if thou hide any thing from me of all the things that he said unto thee .
And Samuel told him every whit , and hid nothing from him . And he said , It is the Lord : let him do what seemeth him good .
And Samuel grew , and the Lord was with him , and did let none of his words fall to the ground .
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer–sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord .
And the Lord appeared again in Shiloh : for the Lord revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord .
And the Philistines took the ark of God , and brought it from Eben–ezer unto Ashdod .
When the Philistines took the ark of God , they brought it into the house of Dagon , and set it by Dagon .
And when they of Ashdod arose early on the morrow , behold , Dagon was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord . And they took Dagon , and set him in his place again .
And when they arose early on the morrow morning , behold , Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of the Lord ; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold ; only the stump of Dagon was left to him .
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon , nor any that come into Dagon ' s house , tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day .
But the hand of the Lord was heavy upon them of Ashdod , and he destroyed them , and smote them with emerods , even Ashdod and the coasts thereof .
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so , they said , The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us : for his hand is sore upon us , and upon Dagon our god .
They sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines unto them , and said , What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel ? And they answered , Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath . And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about thither .
And it was so , that , after they had carried it about , the hand of the Lord was against the city with a very great destruction : and he smote the men of the city , both small and great , and they had emerods in their secret parts .
Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron . And it came to pass , as the ark of God came to Ekron , that the Ekronites cried out , saying , They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us , to slay us and our people .
So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines , and said , Send away the ark of the God of Israel , and let it go again to his own place , that it slay us not , and our people : for there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city ; the hand of God was very heavy there .
And the men that died not were smitten with the emerods : and the cry of the city went up to heaven .
And the men of Kirjath–jearim came , and fetched up the ark of the Lord , and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill , and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the Lord .
And it came to pass , while the ark abode in Kirjath–jearim , that the time was long ; for it was twenty years : and all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord .
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel , saying , If ye do return unto the Lord with all your hearts , then put away the strange gods and Ashtoreth from among you , and prepare your hearts unto the Lord , and serve him only : and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines .
Then the children of Israel did put away Baalim and Ashtoreth , and served the Lord only .
And Samuel said , Gather all Israel to Mizpah , and I will pray for you unto the Lord .
And they gathered together to Mizpah , and drew water , and poured it out before the Lord , and fasted on that day , and said there , We have sinned against the Lord . And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah .
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah , the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel . And when the children of Israel heard it , they were afraid of the Philistines .
And the children of Israel said to Samuel , Cease not to cry unto the Lord our God for us , that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines .
And Samuel took a sucking lamb , and offered it for a burnt offering wholly unto the Lord : and Samuel cried unto the Lord for Israel ; and the Lord heard him .
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering , the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel : but the Lord thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines , and discomfited them ; and they were smitten before Israel .
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah , and pursued the Philistines , and smote them , until they came under Beth–car .
Then Samuel took a stone , and set it between Mizpah and Shen , and called the name of it Eben–ezer , saying , Hitherto hath the Lord helped us .
So the Philistines were subdued , and they came no more into the coast of Israel : and the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel .
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel , from Ekron even unto Gath ; and the coasts thereof did Israel deliver out of the hands of the Philistines . And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites .
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life .
And he went from year to year in circuit to Beth–el , and Gilgal , and Mizpah , and judged Israel in all those places .
And his return was to Ramah ; for there was his house ; and there he judged Israel ; and there he built an altar unto the Lord .
And it came to pass , when Samuel was old , that he made his sons judges over Israel .
Now the name of his firstborn was Joel ; and the name of his second , Abiah : they were judges in Beer–sheba .
And his sons walked not in his ways , but turned aside after lucre , and took bribes , and perverted judgment .
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together , and came to Samuel unto Ramah ,
And said unto him , Behold , thou art old , and thy sons walk not in thy ways : now make us a king to judge us like all the nations .
But the thing displeased Samuel , when they said , Give us a king to judge us . And Samuel prayed unto the Lord .
And the Lord said unto Samuel , Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee : for they have not rejected thee , but they have rejected me , that I should not reign over them .
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day , wherewith they have forsaken me , and served other gods , so do they also unto thee .
Now therefore hearken unto their voice : howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them , and shew them the manner of the king that shall reign over them .
And Samuel told all the words of the Lord unto the people that asked of him a king .
And he said , This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you : He will take your sons , and appoint them for himself , for his chariots , and to be his horsemen ; and some shall run before his chariots .
And he will appoint him captains over thousands , and captains over fifties ; and will set them to ear his ground , and to reap his harvest , and to make his instruments of war , and instruments of his chariots .
And he will take your daughters to be confectionaries , and to be cooks , and to be bakers .
And he will take your fields , and your vineyards , and your oliveyards , even the best of them , and give them to his servants .
And he will take the tenth of your seed , and of your vineyards , and give to his officers , and to his servants .
And he will take your menservants , and your maidservants , and your goodliest young men , and your asses , and put them to his work .
He will take the tenth of your sheep : and ye shall be his servants .
And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king which ye shall have chosen you ; and the Lord will not hear you in that day .
Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel ; and they said , Nay ; but we will have a king over us ;
That we also may be like all the nations ; and that our king may judge us , and go out before us , and fight our battles .
And Samuel heard all the words of the people , and he rehearsed them in the ears of the Lord .
And the Lord said to Samuel , Hearken unto their voice , and make them a king . And Samuel said unto the men of Israel , Go ye every man unto his city .
Now there was a man of Benjamin , whose name was Kish , the son of Abiel , the son of Zeror , the son of Bechorath , the son of Aphiah , a Benjamite , a mighty man of power .
And he had a son , whose name was Saul , a choice young man , and a goodly : and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he : from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people .
And the asses of Kish Saul ' s father were lost . And Kish said to Saul his son , Take now one of the servants with thee , and arise , go seek the asses .
And he passed through mount Ephraim , and passed through the land of Shalisha , but they found them not : then they passed through the land of Shalim , and there they were not : and he passed through the land of the Benjamites , but they found them not .
And when they were come to the land of Zuph , Saul said to his servant that was with him , Come , and let us return ; lest my father leave caring for the asses , and take thought for us .
And he said unto him , Behold now , there is in this city a man of God , and he is an honourable man ; all that he saith cometh surely to pass : now let us go thither ; peradventure he can shew us our way that we should go .
Then said Saul to his servant , But , behold , if we go , what shall we bring the man ? for the bread is spent in our vessels , and there is not a present to bring to the man of God : what have we ?
And the servant answered Saul again , and said , Behold , I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver : that will I give to the man of God , to tell us our way .
 (Beforetime in Israel , when a man went to enquire of God , thus he spake , Come , and let us go to the seer : for he that is now called a Prophet was beforetime called a Seer . )
Then said Saul to his servant , Well said ; come , let us go . So they went unto the city where the man of God was .
And as they went up the hill to the city , they found young maidens going out to draw water , and said unto them , Is the seer here ?
And they answered them , and said , He is ; behold , he is before you : make haste now , for he came to day to the city ; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place :
As soon as ye be come into the city , ye shall straightway find him , before he go up to the high place to eat : for the people will not eat until he come , because he doth bless the sacrifice ; and afterwards they eat that be bidden . Now therefore get you up ; for about this time ye shall find him .
And they went up into the city : and when they were come into the city , behold , Samuel came out against them , for to go up to the high place .
Now the Lord had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came , saying ,
To morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin , and thou shalt anoint him to be captain over my people Israel , that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines : for I have looked upon my people , because their cry is come unto me .
And when Samuel saw Saul , the Lord said unto him , Behold the man whom I spake to thee of ! this same shall reign over my people .
Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate , and said , Tell me , I pray thee , where the seer ' s house is .
And Samuel answered Saul , and said , I am the seer : go up before me unto the high place ; for ye shall eat with me to day , and to morrow I will let thee go , and will tell thee all that is in thine heart .
And as for thine asses that were lost three days ago , set not thy mind on them ; for they are found . And on whom is all the desire of Israel ? Is it not on thee , and on all thy father ' s house ?
And Saul answered and said , Am not I a Benjamite , of the smallest of the tribes of Israel ? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin ? wherefore then speakest thou so to me ?
And Samuel took Saul and his servant , and brought them into the parlour , and made them sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden , which were about thirty persons .
And Samuel said unto the cook , Bring the portion which I gave thee , of which I said unto thee , Set it by thee .
And the cook took up the shoulder , and that which was upon it , and set it before Saul . And Samuel said , Behold that which is left ! set it before thee , and eat : for unto this time hath it been kept for thee since I said , I have invited the people . So Saul did eat with Samuel that day .
And when they were come down from the high place into the city , Samuel communed with Saul upon the top of the house .
And they arose early : and it came to pass about the spring of the day , that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house , saying , Up , that I may send thee away . And Saul arose , and they went out both of them , he and Samuel , abroad .
And as they were going down to the end of the city , Samuel said to Saul , Bid the servant pass on before us , (and he passed on , ) but stand thou still a while , that I may shew thee the word of God .
And it came to pass after this , that David enquired of the Lord , saying , Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah ? And the Lord said unto him , Go up . And David said , Whither shall I go up ? And he said , Unto Hebron .
So David went up thither , and his two wives also , Ahinoam the Jezreelitess , and Abigail Nabal ' s wife the Carmelite .
And his men that were with him did David bring up , every man with his household : and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron .
And the men of Judah came , and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah . And they told David , saying , That the men of Jabesh–gilead were they that buried Saul .
And David sent messengers unto the men of Jabesh–gilead , and said unto them , Blessed be ye of the Lord , that ye have shewed this kindness unto your lord , even unto Saul , and have buried him .
And now the Lord shew kindness and truth unto you : and I also will requite you this kindness , because ye have done this thing .
Therefore now let your hands be strengthened , and be ye valiant : for your master Saul is dead , and also the house of Judah have anointed me king over them .
But Abner the son of Ner , captain of Saul ' s host , took Ish–bosheth the son of Saul , and brought him over to Mahanaim ;
And made him king over Gilead , and over the Ashurites , and over Jezreel , and over Ephraim , and over Benjamin , and over all Israel .
Ish–bosheth Saul ' s son was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel , and reigned two years . But the house of Judah followed David .
And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months .
And Abner the son of Ner , and the servants of Ish–bosheth the son of Saul , went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon .
And Joab the son of Zeruiah , and the servants of David , went out , and met together by the pool of Gibeon : and they sat down , the one on the one side of the pool , and the other on the other side of the pool .
And Abner said to Joab , Let the young men now arise , and play before us . And Joab said , Let them arise .
Then there arose and went over by number twelve of Benjamin , which pertained to Ish–bosheth the son of Saul , and twelve of the servants of David .
And they caught every one his fellow by the head , and thrust his sword in his fellow ' s side ; so they fell down together : wherefore that place was called Helkath–hazzurim , which is in Gibeon .
And there was a very sore battle that day ; and Abner was beaten , and the men of Israel , before the servants of David .
And there were three sons of Zeruiah there , Joab , and Abishai , and Asahel : and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild roe .
And Asahel pursued after Abner ; and in going he turned not to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner .
Then Abner looked behind him , and said , Art thou Asahel ? And he answered , I am .
And Abner said to him , Turn thee aside to thy right hand or to thy left , and lay thee hold on one of the young men , and take thee his armour . But Asahel would not turn aside from following of him .
And Abner said again to Asahel , Turn thee aside from following me : wherefore should I smite thee to the ground ? how then should I hold up my face to Joab thy brother ?
Howbeit he refused to turn aside : wherefore Abner with the hinder end of the spear smote him under the fifth rib , that the spear came out behind him ; and he fell down there , and died in the same place : and it came to pass , that as many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still .
Joab also and Abishai pursued after Abner : and the sun went down when they were come to the hill of Ammah , that lieth before Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon .
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after Abner , and became one troop , and stood on the top of an hill .
Then Abner called to Joab , and said , Shall the sword devour for ever ? knowest thou not that it will be bitterness in the latter end ? how long shall it be then , ere thou bid the people return from following their brethren ?
And Joab said , As God liveth , unless thou hadst spoken , surely then in the morning the people had gone up every one from following his brother .
So Joab blew a trumpet , and all the people stood still , and pursued after Israel no more , neither fought they any more .
And Abner and his men walked all that night through the plain , and passed over Jordan , and went through all Bithron , and they came to Mahanaim .
And Joab returned from following Abner : and when he had gathered all the people together , there lacked of David ' s servants nineteen men and Asahel .
But the servants of David had smitten of Benjamin , and of Abner ' s men , so that three hundred and threescore men died .
And they took up Asahel , and buried him in the sepulchre of his father , which was in Beth–lehem . And Joab and his men went all night , and they came to Hebron at break of day .
And when Saul ' s son heard that Abner was dead in Hebron , his hands were feeble , and all the Israelites were troubled .
And Saul ' s son had two men that were captains of bands : the name of the one was Baanah , and the name of the other Rechab , the sons of Rimmon a Beerothite , of the children of Benjamin : (for Beeroth also was reckoned to Benjamin :
And the Beerothites fled to Gittaim , and were sojourners there until this day . )
And Jonathan , Saul ' s son , had a son that was lame of his feet . He was five years old when the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan out of Jezreel , and his nurse took him up , and fled : and it came to pass , as she made haste to flee , that he fell , and became lame . And his name was Mephibosheth .
And the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite , Rechab and Baanah , went , and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ish–bosheth , who lay on a bed at noon .
And they came thither into the midst of the house , as though they would have fetched wheat ; and they smote him under the fifth rib : and Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped .
For when they came into the house , he lay on his bed in his bedchamber , and they smote him , and slew him , and beheaded him , and took his head , and gat them away through the plain all night .
And they brought the head of Ish–bosheth unto David to Hebron , and said to the king , Behold the head of Ish–bosheth the son of Saul thine enemy , which sought thy life ; and the Lord hath avenged my lord the king this day of Saul , and of his seed .
And David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother , the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite , and said unto them , As the Lord liveth , who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity ,
When one told me , saying , Behold , Saul is dead , thinking to have brought good tidings , I took hold of him , and slew him in Ziklag , who thought that I would have given him a reward for his tidings :
How much more , when wicked men have slain a righteous person in his own house upon his bed ? shall I not therefore now require his blood of your hand , and take you away from the earth ?
And David commanded his young men , and they slew them , and cut off their hands and their feet , and hanged them up over the pool in Hebron . But they took the head of Ish–bosheth , and buried it in the sepulchre of Abner in Hebron .
Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron , and spake , saying , Behold , we are thy bone and thy flesh .
Also in time past , when Saul was king over us , thou wast he that leddest out and broughtest in Israel : and the Lord said to thee , Thou shalt feed my people Israel , and thou shalt be a captain over Israel .
So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron ; and king David made a league with them in Hebron before the Lord : and they anointed David king over Israel .
David was thirty years old when he began to reign , and he reigned forty years .
In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months : and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah .
And the king and his men went to Jerusalem unto the Jebusites , the inhabitants of the land : which spake unto David , saying , Except thou take away the blind and the lame , thou shalt not come in hither : thinking , David cannot come in hither .
Nevertheless David took the strong hold of Zion : the same is the city of David .
And David said on that day , Whosoever getteth up to the gutter , and smiteth the Jebusites , and the lame and the blind , that are hated of David ' s soul , he shall be chief and captain . Wherefore they said , The blind and the lame shall not come into the house .
So David dwelt in the fort , and called it the city of David . And David built round about from Millo and inward .
And David went on , and grew great , and the Lord God of hosts was with him .
And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David , and cedar trees , and carpenters , and masons : and they built David an house .
And David perceived that the Lord had established him king over Israel , and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people Israel ' s sake .
And David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem , after he was come from Hebron : and there were yet sons and daughters born to David .
And these be the names of those that were born unto him in Jerusalem ; Shammua , and Shobab , and Nathan , and Solomon ,
Ibhar also , and Elishua , and Nepheg , and Japhia ,
And Elishama , and Eliada , and Eliphelet .
But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel , all the Philistines came up to seek David ; and David heard of it , and went down to the hold .
The Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim .
And David enquired of the Lord , saying , Shall I go up to the Philistines ? wilt thou deliver them into mine hand ? And the Lord said unto David , Go up : for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into thine hand .
And David came to Baal–perazim , and David smote them there , and said , The Lord hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me , as the breach of waters . Therefore he called the name of that place Baal–perazim .
And there they left their images , and David and his men burned them .
And the Philistines came up yet again , and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim .
And when David enquired of the Lord , he said , Thou shalt not go up ; but fetch a compass behind them , and come upon them over against the mulberry trees .
And let it be , when thou hearest the sound of a going in the tops of the mulberry trees , that then thou shalt bestir thyself : for then shall the Lord go out before thee , to smite the host of the Philistines .
And David did so , as the Lord had commanded him ; and smote the Philistines from Geba until thou come to Gezer .
My son , if thou wilt receive my words , and hide my commandments with thee ;
So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom , and apply thine heart to understanding ;
Yea , if thou criest after knowledge , and liftest up thy voice for understanding ;
If thou seekest her as silver , and searchest for her as for hid treasures ;
Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord , and find the knowledge of God .
For the Lord giveth wisdom : out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding .
He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous : he is a buckler to them that walk uprightly .
He keepeth the paths of judgment , and preserveth the way of his saints .
Then shalt thou understand righteousness , and judgment , and equity ; yea , every good path .
When wisdom entereth into thine heart , and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul ;
Discretion shall preserve thee , understanding shall keep thee :
To deliver thee from the way of the evil man , from the man that speaketh froward things ;
Who leave the paths of uprightness , to walk in the ways of darkness ;
Who rejoice to do evil , and delight in the frowardness of the wicked ;
Whose ways are crooked , and they froward in their paths :
To deliver thee from the strange woman , even from the stranger which flattereth with her words ;
Which forsaketh the guide of her youth , and forgetteth the covenant of her God .
For her house inclineth unto death , and her paths unto the dead .
None that go unto her return again , neither take they hold of the paths of life .
That thou mayest walk in the way of good men , and keep the paths of the righteous .
For the upright shall dwell in the land , and the perfect shall remain in it .
But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth , and the transgressors shall be rooted out of it .
My son , forget not my law ; but let thine heart keep my commandments :
For length of days , and long life , and peace , shall they add to thee .
Let not mercy and truth forsake thee : bind them about thy neck ; write them upon the table of thine heart :
So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man .
Trust in the Lord with all thine heart ; and lean not unto thine own understanding .
In all thy ways acknowledge him , and he shall direct thy paths .
Be not wise in thine own eyes : fear the Lord , and depart from evil .
It shall be health to thy navel , and marrow to thy bones .
Honour the Lord with thy substance , and with the firstfruits of all thine increase :
So shall thy barns be filled with plenty , and thy presses shall burst out with new wine .
My son , despise not the chastening of the Lord ; neither be weary of his correction :
For whom the Lord loveth he correcteth ; even as a father the son in whom he delighteth .
Happy is the man that findeth wisdom , and the man that getteth understanding .
For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver , and the gain thereof than fine gold .
She is more precious than rubies : and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her .
Length of days is in her right hand ; and in her left hand riches and honour .
Her ways are ways of pleasantness , and all her paths are peace .
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her : and happy is every one that retaineth her .
The Lord by wisdom hath founded the earth ; by understanding hath he established the heavens .
By his knowledge the depths are broken up , and the clouds drop down the dew .
My son , let not them depart from thine eyes : keep sound wisdom and discretion :
So shall they be life unto thy soul , and grace to thy neck .
Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely , and thy foot shall not stumble .
When thou liest down , thou shalt not be afraid : yea , thou shalt lie down , and thy sleep shall be sweet .
Be not afraid of sudden fear , neither of the desolation of the wicked , when it cometh .
For the Lord shall be thy confidence , and shall keep thy foot from being taken .
Withhold not good from them to whom it is due , when it is in the power of thine hand to do it .
Say not unto thy neighbour , Go , and come again , and to morrow I will give ; when thou hast it by thee .
Devise not evil against thy neighbour , seeing he dwelleth securely by thee .
Strive not with a man without cause , if he have done thee no harm .
Envy thou not the oppressor , and choose none of his ways .
For the froward is abomination to the Lord : but his secret is with the righteous .
The curse of the Lord is in the house of the wicked : but he blesseth the habitation of the just .
Surely he scorneth the scorners : but he giveth grace unto the lowly .
The wise shall inherit glory : but shame shall be the promotion of fools .
My son , attend unto my wisdom , and bow thine ear to my understanding :
That thou mayest regard discretion , and that thy lips may keep knowledge .
For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb , and her mouth is smoother than oil :
But her end is bitter as wormwood , sharp as a twoedged sword .
Her feet go down to death ; her steps take hold on hell .
Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life , her ways are moveable , that thou canst not know them .
Hear me now therefore , O ye children , and depart not from the words of my mouth .
Remove thy way far from her , and come not nigh the door of her house :
Lest thou give thine honour unto others , and thy years unto the cruel :
Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth ; and thy labours be in the house of a stranger ;
And thou mourn at the last , when thy flesh and thy body are consumed ,
And say , How have I hated instruction , and my heart despised reproof ;
And have not obeyed the voice of my teachers , nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me !
I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly .
Drink waters out of thine own cistern , and running waters out of thine own well .
Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad , and rivers of waters in the streets .
Let them be only thine own , and not strangers ' with thee .
Let thy fountain be blessed : and rejoice with the wife of thy youth .
Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe ; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times ; and be thou ravished always with her love .
And why wilt thou , my son , be ravished with a strange woman , and embrace the bosom of a stranger ?
For the ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord , and he pondereth all his goings .
His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself , and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins .
He shall die without instruction ; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray .
My son , if thou be surety for thy friend , if thou hast stricken thy hand with a stranger ,
Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth , thou art taken with the words of thy mouth .
Do this now , my son , and deliver thyself , when thou art come into the hand of thy friend ; go , humble thyself , and make sure thy friend .
Give not sleep to thine eyes , nor slumber to thine eyelids .
Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter , and as a bird from the hand of the fowler .
Go to the ant , thou sluggard ; consider her ways , and be wise :
Which having no guide , overseer , or ruler ,
Provideth her meat in the summer , and gathereth her food in the harvest .
How long wilt thou sleep , O sluggard ? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep ?
Yet a little sleep , a little slumber , a little folding of the hands to sleep :
So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth , and thy want as an armed man .
A naughty person , a wicked man , walketh with a froward mouth .
He winketh with his eyes , he speaketh with his feet , he teacheth with his fingers ;
Frowardness is in his heart , he deviseth mischief continually ; he soweth discord .
Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly ; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy .
These six things doth the Lord hate : yea , seven are an abomination unto him :
A proud look , a lying tongue , and hands that shed innocent blood ,
An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations , feet that be swift in running to mischief ,
A false witness that speaketh lies , and he that soweth discord among brethren .
My son , keep thy father ' s commandment , and forsake not the law of thy mother :
Bind them continually upon thine heart , and tie them about thy neck .
When thou goest , it shall lead thee ; when thou sleepest , it shall keep thee ; and when thou awakest , it shall talk with thee .
For the commandment is a lamp ; and the law is light ; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life :
To keep thee from the evil woman , from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman .
Lust not after her beauty in thine heart ; neither let her take thee with her eyelids .
For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a piece of bread : and the adulteress will hunt for the precious life .
Can a man take fire in his bosom , and his clothes not be burned ?
Can one go upon hot coals , and his feet not be burned ?
So he that goeth in to his neighbour ' s wife ; whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent .
Men do not despise a thief , if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry ;
But if he be found , he shall restore sevenfold ; he shall give all the substance of his house .
But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding : he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul .
A wound and dishonour shall he get ; and his reproach shall not be wiped away .
For jealousy is the rage of a man : therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance .
He will not regard any ransom ; neither will he rest content , though thou givest many gifts .
My son , keep my words , and lay up my commandments with thee .
Keep my commandments , and live ; and my law as the apple of thine eye .
Bind them upon thy fingers , write them upon the table of thine heart .
Say unto wisdom , Thou art my sister ; and call understanding thy kinswoman :
That they may keep thee from the strange woman , from the stranger which flattereth with her words .
For at the window of my house I looked through my casement ,
And beheld among the simple ones , I discerned among the youths , a young man void of understanding ,
Passing through the street near her corner ; and he went the way to her house ,
In the twilight , in the evening , in the black and dark night :
And , behold , there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot , and subtil of heart .
 (She is loud and stubborn ; her feet abide not in her house :
Now is she without , now in the streets , and lieth in wait at every corner . )
So she caught him , and kissed him , and with an impudent face said unto him ,
I have peace offerings with me ; this day have I payed my vows .
Therefore came I forth to meet thee , diligently to seek thy face , and I have found thee .
I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry , with carved works , with fine linen of Egypt .
I have perfumed my bed with myrrh , aloes , and cinnamon .
Come , let us take our fill of love until the morning : let us solace ourselves with loves .
For the goodman is not at home , he is gone a long journey :
He hath taken a bag of money with him , and will come home at the day appointed .
With her much fair speech she caused him to yield , with the flattering of her lips she forced him .
He goeth after her straightway , as an ox goeth to the slaughter , or as a fool to the correction of the stocks ;
Till a dart strike through his liver ; as a bird hasteth to the snare , and knoweth not that it is for his life .
Hearken unto me now therefore , O ye children , and attend to the words of my mouth .
Let not thine heart decline to her ways , go not astray in her paths .
For she hath cast down many wounded : yea , many strong men have been slain by her .
Her house is the way to hell , going down to the chambers of death .
Doth not wisdom cry ? and understanding put forth her voice ?
She standeth in the top of high places , by the way in the places of the paths .
She crieth at the gates , at the entry of the city , at the coming in at the doors .
Unto you , O men , I call ; and my voice is to the sons of man .
O ye simple , understand wisdom : and , ye fools , be ye of an understanding heart .
Hear ; for I will speak of excellent things ; and the opening of my lips shall be right things .
For my mouth shall speak truth ; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips .
All the words of my mouth are in righteousness ; there is nothing froward or perverse in them .
They are all plain to him that understandeth , and right to them that find knowledge .
Receive my instruction , and not silver ; and knowledge rather than choice gold .
For wisdom is better than rubies ; and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it .
I wisdom dwell with prudence , and find out knowledge of witty inventions .
The fear of the Lord is to hate evil : pride , and arrogancy , and the evil way , and the froward mouth , do I hate .
Counsel is mine , and sound wisdom : I am understanding ; I have strength .
By me kings reign , and princes decree justice .
By me princes rule , and nobles , even all the judges of the earth .
I love them that love me ; and those that seek me early shall find me .
Riches and honour are with me ; yea , durable riches and righteousness .
My fruit is better than gold , yea , than fine gold ; and my revenue than choice silver .
I lead in the way of righteousness , in the midst of the paths of judgment :
That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance ; and I will fill their treasures .
The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way , before his works of old .
I was set up from everlasting , from the beginning , or ever the earth was .
When there were no depths , I was brought forth ; when there were no fountains abounding with water .
Before the mountains were settled , before the hills was I brought forth :
While as yet he had not made the earth , nor the fields , nor the highest part of the dust of the world .
When he prepared the heavens , I was there : when he set a compass upon the face of the depth :
When he established the clouds above : when he strengthened the fountains of the deep :
When he gave to the sea his decree , that the waters should not pass his commandment : when he appointed the foundations of the earth :
Then I was by him , as one brought up with him : and I was daily his delight , rejoicing always before him ;
Rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth ; and my delights were with the sons of men .
Now therefore hearken unto me , O ye children : for blessed are they that keep my ways .
Hear instruction , and be wise , and refuse it not .
Blessed is the man that heareth me , watching daily at my gates , waiting at the posts of my doors .
For whoso findeth me findeth life , and shall obtain favour of the Lord .
But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul : all they that hate me love death .
Wisdom hath builded her house , she hath hewn out her seven pillars :
She hath killed her beasts ; she hath mingled her wine ; she hath also furnished her table .
She hath sent forth her maidens : she crieth upon the highest places of the city ,
Whoso is simple , let him turn in hither : as for him that wanteth understanding , she saith to him ,
Come , eat of my bread , and drink of the wine which I have mingled .
Forsake the foolish , and live ; and go in the way of understanding .
He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame : and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot .
Reprove not a scorner , lest he hate thee : rebuke a wise man , and he will love thee .
Give instruction to a wise man , and he will be yet wiser : teach a just man , and he will increase in learning .
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom : and the knowledge of the holy is understanding .
For by me thy days shall be multiplied , and the years of thy life shall be increased .
If thou be wise , thou shalt be wise for thyself : but if thou scornest , thou alone shalt bear it .
A foolish woman is clamorous : she is simple , and knoweth nothing .
For she sitteth at the door of her house , on a seat in the high places of the city ,
To call passengers who go right on their ways :
Whoso is simple , let him turn in hither : and as for him that wanteth understanding , she saith to him ,
Stolen waters are sweet , and bread eaten in secret is pleasant .
But he knoweth not that the dead are there ; and that her guests are in the depths of hell .
The proverbs of Solomon . A wise son maketh a glad father : but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother .
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing : but righteousness delivereth from death .
The Lord will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish : but he casteth away the substance of the wicked .
He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand : but the hand of the diligent maketh rich .
He that gathereth in summer is a wise son : but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame .
Blessings are upon the head of the just : but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked .
The memory of the just is blessed : but the name of the wicked shall rot .
The wise in heart will receive commandments : but a prating fool shall fall .
He that walketh uprightly walketh surely : but he that perverteth his ways shall be known .
He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow : but a prating fool shall fall .
The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life : but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked .
Hatred stirreth up strifes : but love covereth all sins .
In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found : but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding .
Wise men lay up knowledge : but the mouth of the foolish is near destruction .
The rich man ' s wealth is his strong city : the destruction of the poor is their poverty .
The labour of the righteous tendeth to life : the fruit of the wicked to sin .
He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction : but he that refuseth reproof erreth .
He that hideth hatred with lying lips , and he that uttereth a slander , is a fool .
In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin : but he that refraineth his lips is wise .
The tongue of the just is as choice silver : the heart of the wicked is little worth .
The lips of the righteous feed many : but fools die for want of wisdom .
The blessing of the Lord , it maketh rich , and he addeth no sorrow with it .
It is as sport to a fool to do mischief : but a man of understanding hath wisdom .
The fear of the wicked , it shall come upon him : but the desire of the righteous shall be granted .
As the whirlwind passeth , so is the wicked no more : but the righteous is an everlasting foundation .
As vinegar to the teeth , and as smoke to the eyes , so is the sluggard to them that send him .
The fear of the Lord prolongeth days : but the years of the wicked shall be shortened .
The hope of the righteous shall be gladness : but the expectation of the wicked shall perish .
The way of the Lord is strength to the upright : but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity .
The righteous shall never be removed : but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth .
The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom : but the froward tongue shall be cut out .
The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable : but the mouth of the wicked speaketh frowardness .
Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out of the fish ' s belly ,
And said , I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the Lord , and he heard me ; out of the belly of hell cried I , and thou heardest my voice .
For thou hadst cast me into the deep , in the midst of the seas ; and the floods compassed me about : all thy billows and thy waves passed over me .
Then I said , I am cast out of thy sight ; yet I will look again toward thy holy temple .
The waters compassed me about , even to the soul : the depth closed me round about , the weeds were wrapped about my head .
I went down to the bottoms of the mountains ; the earth with her bars was about me for ever : yet hast thou brought up my life from corruption , O Lord my God .
When my soul fainted within me I remembered the Lord : and my prayer came in unto thee , into thine holy temple .
They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy .
But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving ; I will pay that that I have vowed . Salvation is of the Lord .
And the Lord spake unto the fish , and it vomited out Jonah upon the dry land .
But it displeased Jonah exceedingly , and he was very angry .
And he prayed unto the Lord , and said , I pray thee , O Lord , was not this my saying , when I was yet in my country ? Therefore I fled before unto Tarshish : for I knew that thou art a gracious God , and merciful , slow to anger , and of great kindness , and repentest thee of the evil .
Therefore now , O Lord , take , I beseech thee , my life from me ; for it is better for me to die than to live .
Then said the Lord , Doest thou well to be angry ?
So Jonah went out of the city , and sat on the east side of the city , and there made him a booth , and sat under it in the shadow , till he might see what would become of the city .
And the Lord God prepared a gourd , and made it to come up over Jonah , that it might be a shadow over his head , to deliver him from his grief . So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd .
But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day , and it smote the gourd that it withered .
And it came to pass , when the sun did arise , that God prepared a vehement east wind ; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah , that he fainted , and wished in himself to die , and said , It is better for me to die than to live .
And God said to Jonah , Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd ? And he said , I do well to be angry , even unto death .
Then said the Lord , Thou hast had pity on the gourd , for the which thou hast not laboured , neither madest it grow ; which came up in a night , and perished in a night :
And should not I spare Nineveh , that great city , wherein are more than sixscore thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand ; and also much cattle ?
And again he entered into Capernaum after some days ; and it was noised that he was in the house .
And straightway many were gathered together , insomuch that there was no room to receive them , no , not so much as about the door : and he preached the word unto them .
And they come unto him , bringing one sick of the palsy , which was borne of four .
And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press , they uncovered the roof where he was : and when they had broken it up , they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay .
When Jesus saw their faith , he said unto the sick of the palsy , Son , thy sins be forgiven thee .
But there were certain of the scribes sitting there , and reasoning in their hearts ,
Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies ? who can forgive sins but God only ?
And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves , he said unto them , Why reason ye these things in your hearts ?
 Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy , Thy sins be forgiven thee ; or to say , Arise , and take up thy bed , and walk ?
 But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins , (he saith to the sick of the palsy , )
 I say unto thee , Arise , and take up thy bed , and go thy way into thine house .
And immediately he arose , took up the bed , and went forth before them all ; insomuch that they were all amazed , and glorified God , saying , We never saw it on this fashion .
And he went forth again by the sea side ; and all the multitude resorted unto him , and he taught them .
And as he passed by , he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the receipt of custom , and said unto him , Follow me . And he arose and followed him .
And it came to pass , that , as Jesus sat at meat in his house , many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and his disciples : for there were many , and they followed him .
And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat with publicans and sinners , they said unto his disciples , How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners ?
When Jesus heard it , he saith unto them , They that are whole have no need of the physician , but they that are sick : I came not to call the righteous , but sinners to repentance .
And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast : and they come and say unto him , Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast , but thy disciples fast not ?
And Jesus said unto them , Can the children of the bridechamber fast , while the bridegroom is with them ? as long as they have the bridegroom with them , they cannot fast .
 But the days will come , when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them , and then shall they fast in those days .
 No man also seweth a piece of new cloth on an old garment : else the new piece that filled it up taketh away from the old , and the rent is made worse .
 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles : else the new wine doth burst the bottles , and the wine is spilled , and the bottles will be marred : but new wine must be put into new bottles .
And it came to pass , that he went through the corn fields on the sabbath day ; and his disciples began , as they went , to pluck the ears of corn .
And the Pharisees said unto him , Behold , why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful ?
And he said unto them , Have ye never read what David did , when he had need , and was an hungred , he , and they that were with him ?
 How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest , and did eat the shewbread , which is not lawful to eat but for the priests , and gave also to them which were with him ?
And he said unto them , The sabbath was made for man , and not man for the sabbath :
 Therefore the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath .
Then came together unto him the Pharisees , and certain of the scribes , which came from Jerusalem .
And when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled , that is to say , with unwashen , hands , they found fault .
For the Pharisees , and all the Jews , except they wash their hands oft , eat not , holding the tradition of the elders .
And when they come from the market , except they wash , they eat not . And many other things there be , which they have received to hold , as the washing of cups , and pots , brasen vessels , and of tables .
Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him , Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders , but eat bread with unwashen hands ?
He answered and said unto them , Well hath Esaias prophesied of you hypocrites , as it is written , This people honoureth me with their lips , but their heart is far from me .
 Howbeit in vain do they worship me , teaching for doctrines the commandments of men .
 For laying aside the commandment of God , ye hold the tradition of men , as the washing of pots and cups : and many other such like things ye do .
And he said unto them , Full well ye reject the commandment of God , that ye may keep your own tradition .
 For Moses said , Honour thy father and thy mother ; and , Whoso curseth father or mother , let him die the death :
 But ye say , If a man shall say to his father or mother , It is Corban , that is to say , a gift , by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me ; he shall be free .
 And ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his mother ;
 Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition , which ye have delivered : and many such like things do ye .
And when he had called all the people unto him , he said unto them , Hearken unto me every one of you , and understand :
 There is nothing from without a man , that entering into him can defile him : but the things which come out of him , those are they that defile the man .
 If any man have ears to hear , let him hear .
And when he was entered into the house from the people , his disciples asked him concerning the parable .
And he saith unto them , Are ye so without understanding also ? Do ye not perceive , that whatsoever thing from without entereth into the man , it cannot defile him ;
 Because it entereth not into his heart , but into the belly , and goeth out into the draught , purging all meats ?
And he said , That which cometh out of the man , that defileth the man .
 For from within , out of the heart of men , proceed evil thoughts , adulteries , fornications , murders ,
 Thefts , covetousness , wickedness , deceit , lasciviousness , an evil eye , blasphemy , pride , foolishness :
 All these evil things come from within , and defile the man .
And from thence he arose , and went into the borders of Tyre and Sidon , and entered into an house , and would have no man know it : but he could not be hid .
For a certain woman , whose young daughter had an unclean spirit , heard of him , and came and fell at his feet :
The woman was a Greek , a Syrophenician by nation ; and she besought him that he would cast forth the devil out of her daughter .
But Jesus said unto her , Let the children first be filled : for it is not meet to take the children ' s bread , and to cast it unto the dogs .
And she answered and said unto him , Yes , Lord : yet the dogs under the table eat of the children ' s crumbs .
And he said unto her , For this saying go thy way ; the devil is gone out of thy daughter .
And when she was come to her house , she found the devil gone out , and her daughter laid upon the bed .
And again , departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon , he came unto the sea of Galilee , through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis .
And they bring unto him one that was deaf , and had an impediment in his speech ; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him .
And he took him aside from the multitude , and put his fingers into his ears , and he spit , and touched his tongue ;
And looking up to heaven , he sighed , and saith unto him , Ephphatha , that is , Be opened .
And straightway his ears were opened , and the string of his tongue was loosed , and he spake plain .
And he charged them that they should tell no man : but the more he charged them , so much the more a great deal they published it ;
And were beyond measure astonished , saying , He hath done all things well : he maketh both the deaf to hear , and the dumb to speak .
And he arose from thence , and cometh into the coasts of Judaea by the farther side of Jordan : and the people resort unto him again ; and , as he was wont , he taught them again .
And the Pharisees came to him , and asked him , Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife ? tempting him .
And he answered and said unto them , What did Moses command you ?
And they said , Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement , and to put her away .
And Jesus answered and said unto them , For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept .
 But from the beginning of the creation God made them male and female .
 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother , and cleave to his wife ;
 And they twain shall be one flesh : so then they are no more twain , but one flesh .
 What therefore God hath joined together , let not man put asunder .
And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter .
And he saith unto them , Whosoever shall put away his wife , and marry another , committeth adultery against her .
 And if a woman shall put away her husband , and be married to another , she committeth adultery .
And they brought young children to him , that he should touch them : and his disciples rebuked those that brought them .
But when Jesus saw it , he was much displeased , and said unto them , Suffer the little children to come unto me , and forbid them not : for of such is the kingdom of God .
 Verily I say unto you , Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child , he shall not enter therein .
And he took them up in his arms , put his hands upon them , and blessed them .
And when he was gone forth into the way , there came one running , and kneeled to him , and asked him , Good Master , what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life ?
And Jesus said unto him , Why callest thou me good ? there is none good but one , that is , God .
 Thou knowest the commandments , Do not commit adultery , Do not kill , Do not steal , Do not bear false witness , Defraud not , Honour thy father and mother .
And he answered and said unto him , Master , all these have I observed from my youth .
Then Jesus beholding him loved him , and said unto him , One thing thou lackest : go thy way , sell whatsoever thou hast , and give to the poor , and thou shalt have treasure in heaven : and come , take up the cross , and follow me .
And he was sad at that saying , and went away grieved : for he had great possessions .
And Jesus looked round about , and saith unto his disciples , How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God !
And the disciples were astonished at his words . But Jesus answereth again , and saith unto them , Children , how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God !
 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle , than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God .
And they were astonished out of measure , saying among themselves , Who then can be saved ?
And Jesus looking upon them saith , With men it is impossible , but not with God : for with God all things are possible .
Then Peter began to say unto him , Lo , we have left all , and have followed thee .
And Jesus answered and said , Verily I say unto you , There is no man that hath left house , or brethren , or sisters , or father , or mother , or wife , or children , or lands , for my sake , and the gospel ' s ,
 But he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time , houses , and brethren , and sisters , and mothers , and children , and lands , with persecutions ; and in the world to come eternal life .
 But many that are first shall be last ; and the last first .
And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem ; and Jesus went before them : and they were amazed ; and as they followed , they were afraid . And he took again the twelve , and began to tell them what things should happen unto him ,
Saying , Behold , we go up to Jerusalem ; and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests , and unto the scribes ; and they shall condemn him to death , and shall deliver him to the Gentiles :
 And they shall mock him , and shall scourge him , and shall spit upon him , and shall kill him : and the third day he shall rise again .
And James and John , the sons of Zebedee , come unto him , saying , Master , we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire .
And he said unto them , What would ye that I should do for you ?
They said unto him , Grant unto us that we may sit , one on thy right hand , and the other on thy left hand , in thy glory .
But Jesus said unto them , Ye know not what ye ask : can ye drink of the cup that I drink of ? and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with ?
And they said unto him , We can . And Jesus said unto them , Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of ; and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized :
 But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give ; but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared .
And when the ten heard it , they began to be much displeased with James and John .
But Jesus called them to him , and saith unto them , Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them ; and their great ones exercise authority upon them .
 But so shall it not be among you : but whosoever will be great among you , shall be your minister :
 And whosoever of you will be the chiefest , shall be servant of all .
 For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto , but to minister , and to give his life a ransom for many .
And they came to Jericho : and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great number of people , blind Bartimaeus , the son of Timaeus , sat by the highway side begging .
And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth , he began to cry out , and say , Jesus , thou Son of David , have mercy on me .
And many charged him that he should hold his peace : but he cried the more a great deal , Thou Son of David , have mercy on me .
And Jesus stood still , and commanded him to be called . And they call the blind man , saying unto him , Be of good comfort , rise ; he calleth thee . 50And he , casting away his garment , rose , and came to Jesus . 51And Jesus answered and said unto him , What wilt thou that I should do unto thee ? The blind man said unto him , Lord , that I might receive my sight . 52And Jesus said unto him , Go thy way ; thy faith hath made thee whole . And immediately he received his sight , and followed Jesus in the way .
And it came to pass , that , as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God , he stood by the lake of Gennesaret ,
And saw two ships standing by the lake : but the fishermen were gone out of them , and were washing their nets .
And he entered into one of the ships , which was Simon ' s , and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land . And he sat down , and taught the people out of the ship .
Now when he had left speaking , he said unto Simon , Launch out into the deep , and let down your nets for a draught .
And Simon answering said unto him , Master , we have toiled all the night , and have taken nothing : nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net .
And when they had this done , they inclosed a great multitude of fishes : and their net brake .
And they beckoned unto their partners , which were in the other ship , that they should come and help them . And they came , and filled both the ships , so that they began to sink .
When Simon Peter saw it , he fell down at Jesus ' knees , saying , Depart from me ; for I am a sinful man , O Lord .
For he was astonished , and all that were with him , at the draught of the fishes which they had taken :
And so was also James , and John , the sons of Zebedee , which were partners with Simon . And Jesus said unto Simon , Fear not ; from henceforth thou shalt catch men .
And when they had brought their ships to land , they forsook all , and followed him .
And it came to pass , when he was in a certain city , behold a man full of leprosy : who seeing Jesus fell on his face , and besought him , saying , Lord , if thou wilt , thou canst make me clean .
And he put forth his hand , and touched him , saying , I will : be thou clean . And immediately the leprosy departed from him .
And he charged him to tell no man : but go , and shew thyself to the priest , and offer for thy cleansing , according as Moses commanded , for a testimony unto them .
But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him : and great multitudes came together to hear , and to be healed by him of their infirmities .
And he withdrew himself into the wilderness , and prayed .
And it came to pass on a certain day , as he was teaching , that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by , which were come out of every town of Galilee , and Judaea , and Jerusalem : and the power of the Lord was present to heal them .
And , behold , men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a palsy : and they sought means to bring him in , and to lay him before him .
And when they could not find by what way they might bring him in because of the multitude , they went upon the housetop , and let him down through the tiling with his couch into the midst before Jesus .
And when he saw their faith , he said unto him , Man , thy sins are forgiven thee .
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason , saying , Who is this which speaketh blasphemies ? Who can forgive sins , but God alone ?
But when Jesus perceived their thoughts , he answering said unto them , What reason ye in your hearts ?
 Whether is easier , to say , Thy sins be forgiven thee ; or to say , Rise up and walk ?
 But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power upon earth to forgive sins , (he said unto the sick of the palsy , ) I say unto thee , Arise , and take up thy couch , and go into thine house .
And immediately he rose up before them , and took up that whereon he lay , and departed to his own house , glorifying God .
And they were all amazed , and they glorified God , and were filled with fear , saying , We have seen strange things to day .
And after these things he went forth , and saw a publican , named Levi , sitting at the receipt of custom : and he said unto him , Follow me .
And he left all , rose up , and followed him .
And Levi made him a great feast in his own house : and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them .
But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples , saying , Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners ?
And Jesus answering said unto them , They that are whole need not a physician ; but they that are sick .
 I came not to call the righteous , but sinners to repentance .
And they said unto him , Why do the disciples of John fast often , and make prayers , and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees ; but thine eat and drink ?
And he said unto them , Can ye make the children of the bridechamber fast , while the bridegroom is with them ?
 But the days will come , when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them , and then shall they fast in those days .
And he spake also a parable unto them ; No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon an old ; if otherwise , then both the new maketh a rent , and the piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the old .
 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles ; else the new wine will burst the bottles , and be spilled , and the bottles shall perish .
 But new wine must be put into new bottles ; and both are preserved .
 No man also having drunk old wine straightway desireth new : for he saith , The old is better .
Then he called his twelve disciples together , and gave them power and authority over all devils , and to cure diseases .
And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God , and to heal the sick .
And he said unto them , Take nothing for your journey , neither staves , nor scrip , neither bread , neither money ; neither have two coats apiece .
 And whatsoever house ye enter into , there abide , and thence depart .
 And whosoever will not receive you , when ye go out of that city , shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them .
And they departed , and went through the towns , preaching the gospel , and healing every where .
Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him : and he was perplexed , because that it was said of some , that John was risen from the dead ;
And of some , that Elias had appeared ; and of others , that one of the old prophets was risen again .
And Herod said , John have I beheaded : but who is this , of whom I hear such things ? And he desired to see him .
And the apostles , when they were returned , told him all that they had done . And he took them , and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida .
And the people , when they knew it , followed him : and he received them , and spake unto them of the kingdom of God , and healed them that had need of healing .
And when the day began to wear away , then came the twelve , and said unto him , Send the multitude away , that they may go into the towns and country round about , and lodge , and get victuals : for we are here in a desert place .
But he said unto them , Give ye them to eat . And they said , We have no more but five loaves and two fishes ; except we should go and buy meat for all this people .
For they were about five thousand men . And he said to his disciples , Make them sit down by fifties in a company .
And they did so , and made them all sit down .
Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes , and looking up to heaven , he blessed them , and brake , and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude .
And they did eat , and were all filled : and there was taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets .
And it came to pass , as he was alone praying , his disciples were with him : and he asked them , saying , Whom say the people that I am ?
They answering said , John the Baptist ; but some say , Elias ; and others say , that one of the old prophets is risen again .
He said unto them , But whom say ye that I am ? Peter answering said , The Christ of God .
And he straitly charged them , and commanded them to tell no man that thing ;
Saying , The Son of man must suffer many things , and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes , and be slain , and be raised the third day .
And he said to them all , If any man will come after me , let him deny himself , and take up his cross daily , and follow me .
 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it : but whosoever will lose his life for my sake , the same shall save it .
 For what is a man advantaged , if he gain the whole world , and lose himself , or be cast away ?
 For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words , of him shall the Son of man be ashamed , when he shall come in his own glory , and in his Father ' s , and of the holy angels .
 But I tell you of a truth , there be some standing here , which shall not taste of death , till they see the kingdom of God .
And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings , he took Peter and John and James , and went up into a mountain to pray .
And as he prayed , the fashion of his countenance was altered , and his raiment was white and glistering .
And , behold , there talked with him two men , which were Moses and Elias :
Who appeared in glory , and spake of his decease which he should accomplish at Jerusalem .
But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep : and when they were awake , they saw his glory , and the two men that stood with him .
And it came to pass , as they departed from him , Peter said unto Jesus , Master , it is good for us to be here : and let us make three tabernacles ; one for thee , and one for Moses , and one for Elias : not knowing what he said .
While he thus spake , there came a cloud , and overshadowed them : and they feared as they entered into the cloud .
And there came a voice out of the cloud , saying , This is my beloved Son : hear him .
And when the voice was past , Jesus was found alone . And they kept it close , and told no man in those days any of those things which they had seen .
And it came to pass , that on the next day , when they were come down from the hill , much people met him .
And , behold , a man of the company cried out , saying , Master , I beseech thee , look upon my son : for he is mine only child .
And , lo , a spirit taketh him , and he suddenly crieth out ; and it teareth him that he foameth again , and bruising him hardly departeth from him .
And I besought thy disciples to cast him out ; and they could not .
And Jesus answering said , O faithless and perverse generation , how long shall I be with you , and suffer you ? Bring thy son hither .
And as he was yet a coming , the devil threw him down , and tare him . And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit , and healed the child , and delivered him again to his father .
And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God . But while they wondered every one at all things which Jesus did , he said unto his disciples ,
 Let these sayings sink down into your ears : for the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men .
But they understood not this saying , and it was hid from them , that they perceived it not : and they feared to ask him of that saying .
Then there arose a reasoning among them , which of them should be greatest .
And Jesus , perceiving the thought of their heart , took a child , and set him by him ,
And said unto them , Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me : and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me : for he that is least among you all , the same shall be great .
And John answered and said , Master , we saw one casting out devils in thy name ; and we forbad him , because he followeth not with us . 50And Jesus said unto him , Forbid him not : for he that is not against us is for us . 51And it came to pass , when the time was come that he should be received up , he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem , 52And sent messengers before his face : and they went , and entered into a village of the Samaritans , to make ready for him . 53And they did not receive him , because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem . 54And when his disciples James and John saw this , they said , Lord , wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven , and consume them , even as Elias did ? 55But he turned , and rebuked them , and said , Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of . 56 For the Son of man is not come to destroy men ' s lives , but to save them . And they went to another village . 57And it came to pass , that , as they went in the way , a certain man said unto him , Lord , I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest . 58And Jesus said unto him , Foxes have holes , and birds of the air have nests ; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head . 59And he said unto another , Follow me . But he said , Lord , suffer me first to go and bury my father . 60Jesus said unto him , Let the dead bury their dead : but go thou and preach the kingdom of God . 61And another also said , Lord , I will follow thee ; but let me first go bid them farewell , which are at home at my house . 62And Jesus said unto him , No man , having put his hand to the plough , and looking back , is fit for the kingdom of God .
In the mean time , when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people , insomuch that they trode one upon another , he began to say unto his disciples first of all , Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees , which is hypocrisy .
 For there is nothing covered , that shall not be revealed ; neither hid , that shall not be known .
 Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness shall be heard in the light ; and that which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shall be proclaimed upon the housetops .
 And I say unto you my friends , Be not afraid of them that kill the body , and after that have no more that they can do .
 But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear : Fear him , which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell ; yea , I say unto you , Fear him .
 Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings , and not one of them is forgotten before God ?
 But even the very hairs of your head are all numbered . Fear not therefore : ye are of more value than many sparrows .
 Also I say unto you , Whosoever shall confess me before men , him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God :
 But he that denieth me before men shall be denied before the angels of God .
 And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son of man , it shall be forgiven him : but unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy Ghost it shall not be forgiven .
 And when they bring you unto the synagogues , and unto magistrates , and powers , take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall answer , or what ye shall say :
 For the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what ye ought to say .
And one of the company said unto him , Master , speak to my brother , that he divide the inheritance with me .
And he said unto him , Man , who made me a judge or a divider over you ?
And he said unto them , Take heed , and beware of covetousness : for a man ' s life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth .
And he spake a parable unto them , saying , The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully :
 And he thought within himself , saying , What shall I do , because I have no room where to bestow my fruits ?
 And he said , This will I do : I will pull down my barns , and build greater ; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods .
 And I will say to my soul , Soul , thou hast much goods laid up for many years ; take thine ease , eat , drink , and be merry .
 But God said unto him , Thou fool , this night thy soul shall be required of thee : then whose shall those things be , which thou hast provided ?
 So is he that layeth up treasure for himself , and is not rich toward God .
And he said unto his disciples , Therefore I say unto you , Take no thought for your life , what ye shall eat ; neither for the body , what ye shall put on .
 The life is more than meat , and the body is more than raiment .
 Consider the ravens : for they neither sow nor reap ; which neither have storehouse nor barn ; and God feedeth them : how much more are ye better than the fowls ?
 And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit ?
 If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least , why take ye thought for the rest ?
 Consider the lilies how they grow : they toil not , they spin not ; and yet I say unto you , that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these .
 If then God so clothe the grass , which is to day in the field , and to morrow is cast into the oven ; how much more will he clothe you , O ye of little faith ?
 And seek not ye what ye shall eat , or what ye shall drink , neither be ye of doubtful mind .
 For all these things do the nations of the world seek after : and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things .
 But rather seek ye the kingdom of God ; and all these things shall be added unto you .
 Fear not , little flock ; for it is your Father ' s good pleasure to give you the kingdom .
 Sell that ye have , and give alms ; provide yourselves bags which wax not old , a treasure in the heavens that faileth not , where no thief approacheth , neither moth corrupteth .
 For where your treasure is , there will your heart be also .
 Let your loins be girded about , and your lights burning ;
 And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord , when he will return from the wedding ; that when he cometh and knocketh , they may open unto him immediately .
 Blessed are those servants , whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching : verily I say unto you , that he shall gird himself , and make them to sit down to meat , and will come forth and serve them .
 And if he shall come in the second watch , or come in the third watch , and find them so , blessed are those servants .
 And this know , that if the goodman of the house had known what hour the thief would come , he would have watched , and not have suffered his house to be broken through .
 Be ye therefore ready also : for the Son of man cometh at an hour when ye think not .
Then Peter said unto him , Lord , speakest thou this parable unto us , or even to all ?
And the Lord said , Who then is that faithful and wise steward , whom his lord shall make ruler over his household , to give them their portion of meat in due season ?
 Blessed is that servant , whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing .
 Of a truth I say unto you , that he will make him ruler over all that he hath .
 But and if that servant say in his heart , My lord delayeth his coming ; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens , and to eat and drink , and to be drunken ;
 The lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him , and at an hour when he is not aware , and will cut him in sunder , and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers .
 And that servant , which knew his lord ' s will , and prepared not himself , neither did according to his will , shall be beaten with many stripes .
 But he that knew not , and did commit things worthy of stripes , shall be beaten with few stripes . For unto whomsoever much is given , of him shall be much required : and to whom men have committed much , of him they will ask the more .
 I am come to send fire on the earth ; and what will I , if it be already kindled ? 50 But I have a baptism to be baptized with ; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished ! 51 Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth ? I tell you , Nay ; but rather division : 52 For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided , three against two , and two against three . 53 The father shall be divided against the son , and the son against the father ; the mother against the daughter , and the daughter against the mother ; the mother in law against her daughter in law , and the daughter in law against her mother in law . 54And he said also to the people , When ye see a cloud rise out of the west , straightway ye say , There cometh a shower ; and so it is . 55 And when ye see the south wind blow , ye say , There will be heat ; and it cometh to pass . 56 Ye hypocrites , ye can discern the face of the sky and of the earth ; but how is it that ye do not discern this time ? 57 Yea , and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right ? 58 When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate , as thou art in the way , give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him ; lest he hale thee to the judge , and the judge deliver thee to the officer , and the officer cast thee into prison . 59 I tell thee , thou shalt not depart thence , till thou hast paid the very last mite .
There were present at that season some that told him of the Galilaeans , whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices .
And Jesus answering said unto them , Suppose ye that these Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans , because they suffered such things ?
 I tell you , Nay : but , except ye repent , ye shall all likewise perish .
 Or those eighteen , upon whom the tower in Siloam fell , and slew them , think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem ?
 I tell you , Nay : but , except ye repent , ye shall all likewise perish .
He spake also this parable ; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard ; and he came and sought fruit thereon , and found none .
 Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard , Behold , these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree , and find none : cut it down ; why cumbereth it the ground ?
 And he answering said unto him , Lord , let it alone this year also , till I shall dig about it , and dung it :
 And if it bear fruit , well : and if not , then after that thou shalt cut it down .
And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath .
And , behold , there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years , and was bowed together , and could in no wise lift up herself .
And when Jesus saw her , he called her to him , and said unto her , Woman , thou art loosed from thine infirmity .
And he laid his hands on her : and immediately she was made straight , and glorified God .
And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation , because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day , and said unto the people , There are six days in which men ought to work : in them therefore come and be healed , and not on the sabbath day .
The Lord then answered him , and said , Thou hypocrite , doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall , and lead him away to watering ?
 And ought not this woman , being a daughter of Abraham , whom Satan hath bound , lo , these eighteen years , be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day ?
And when he had said these things , all his adversaries were ashamed : and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him .
Then said he , Unto what is the kingdom of God like ? and whereunto shall I resemble it ?
 It is like a grain of mustard seed , which a man took , and cast into his garden ; and it grew , and waxed a great tree ; and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it .
And again he said , Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God ?
 It is like leaven , which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal , till the whole was leavened .
And he went through the cities and villages , teaching , and journeying toward Jerusalem .
Then said one unto him , Lord , are there few that be saved ? And he said unto them ,
 Strive to enter in at the strait gate : for many , I say unto you , will seek to enter in , and shall not be able .
 When once the master of the house is risen up , and hath shut to the door , and ye begin to stand without , and to knock at the door , saying , Lord , Lord , open unto us ; and he shall answer and say unto you , I know you not whence ye are :
 Then shall ye begin to say , We have eaten and drunk in thy presence , and thou hast taught in our streets .
 But he shall say , I tell you , I know you not whence ye are ; depart from me , all ye workers of iniquity .
 There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth , when ye shall see Abraham , and Isaac , and Jacob , and all the prophets , in the kingdom of God , and you yourselves thrust out .
 And they shall come from the east , and from the west , and from the north , and from the south , and shall sit down in the kingdom of God .
 And , behold , there are last which shall be first , and there are first which shall be last .
The same day there came certain of the Pharisees , saying unto him , Get thee out , and depart hence : for Herod will kill thee .
And he said unto them , Go ye , and tell that fox , Behold , I cast out devils , and I do cures to day and to morrow , and the third day I shall be perfected .
 Nevertheless I must walk to day , and to morrow , and the day following : for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem .
 O Jerusalem , Jerusalem , which killest the prophets , and stonest them that are sent unto thee ; how often would I have gathered thy children together , as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings , and ye would not !
 Behold , your house is left unto you desolate : and verily I say unto you , Ye shall not see me , until the time come when ye shall say , Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord .
And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee ; and the mother of Jesus was there :
And both Jesus was called , and his disciples , to the marriage .
And when they wanted wine , the mother of Jesus saith unto him , They have no wine .
Jesus saith unto her , Woman , what have I to do with thee ? mine hour is not yet come .
His mother saith unto the servants , Whatsoever he saith unto you , do it .
And there were set there six waterpots of stone , after the manner of the purifying of the Jews , containing two or three firkins apiece .
Jesus saith unto them , Fill the waterpots with water . And they filled them up to the brim .
And he saith unto them , Draw out now , and bear unto the governor of the feast . And they bare it .
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine , and knew not whence it was : (but the servants which drew the water knew ; ) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom ,
And saith unto him , Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine ; and when men have well drunk , then that which is worse : but thou hast kept the good wine until now .
This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee , and manifested forth his glory ; and his disciples believed on him .
After this he went down to Capernaum , he , and his mother , and his brethren , and his disciples : and they continued there not many days .
And the Jews ' passover was at hand , and Jesus went up to Jerusalem ,
And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves , and the changers of money sitting :
And when he had made a scourge of small cords , he drove them all out of the temple , and the sheep , and the oxen ; and poured out the changers ' money , and overthrew the tables ;
And said unto them that sold doves , Take these things hence ; make not my Father ' s house an house of merchandise .
And his disciples remembered that it was written , The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up .
Then answered the Jews and said unto him , What sign shewest thou unto us , seeing that thou doest these things ?
Jesus answered and said unto them , Destroy this temple , and in three days I will raise it up .
Then said the Jews , Forty and six years was this temple in building , and wilt thou rear it up in three days ?
But he spake of the temple of his body .
When therefore he was risen from the dead , his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them ; and they believed the scripture , and the word which Jesus had said .
Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover , in the feast day , many believed in his name , when they saw the miracles which he did .
But Jesus did not commit himself unto them , because he knew all men ,
And needed not that any should testify of man : for he knew what was in man .
After this there was a feast of the Jews ; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem .
Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool , which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda , having five porches .
In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk , of blind , halt , withered , waiting for the moving of the water .
For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool , and troubled the water : whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had .
And a certain man was there , which had an infirmity thirty and eight years .
When Jesus saw him lie , and knew that he had been now a long time in that case , he saith unto him , Wilt thou be made whole ?
The impotent man answered him , Sir , I have no man , when the water is troubled , to put me into the pool : but while I am coming , another steppeth down before me .
Jesus saith unto him , Rise , take up thy bed , and walk .
And immediately the man was made whole , and took up his bed , and walked : and on the same day was the sabbath .
The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured , It is the sabbath day : it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed .
He answered them , He that made me whole , the same said unto me , Take up thy bed , and walk .
Then asked they him , What man is that which said unto thee , Take up thy bed , and walk ?
And he that was healed wist not who it was : for Jesus had conveyed himself away , a multitude being in that place .
Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple , and said unto him , Behold , thou art made whole : sin no more , lest a worse thing come unto thee .
The man departed , and told the Jews that it was Jesus , which had made him whole .
And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus , and sought to slay him , because he had done these things on the sabbath day .
But Jesus answered them , My Father worketh hitherto , and I work .
Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him , because he not only had broken the sabbath , but said also that God was his Father , making himself equal with God .
Then answered Jesus and said unto them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , The Son can do nothing of himself , but what he seeth the Father do : for what things soever he doeth , these also doeth the Son likewise .
 For the Father loveth the Son , and sheweth him all things that himself doeth : and he will shew him greater works than these , that ye may marvel .
 For as the Father raiseth up the dead , and quickeneth them ; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will .
 For the Father judgeth no man , but hath committed all judgment unto the Son :
 That all men should honour the Son , even as they honour the Father . He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him .
 Verily , verily , I say unto you , He that heareth my word , and believeth on him that sent me , hath everlasting life , and shall not come into condemnation ; but is passed from death unto life .
 Verily , verily , I say unto you , The hour is coming , and now is , when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God : and they that hear shall live .
 For as the Father hath life in himself ; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself ;
 And hath given him authority to execute judgment also , because he is the Son of man .
 Marvel not at this : for the hour is coming , in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice ,
 And shall come forth ; they that have done good , unto the resurrection of life ; and they that have done evil , unto the resurrection of damnation .
 I can of mine own self do nothing : as I hear , I judge : and my judgment is just ; because I seek not mine own will , but the will of the Father which hath sent me .
 If I bear witness of myself , my witness is not true .
 There is another that beareth witness of me ; and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true .
 Ye sent unto John , and he bare witness unto the truth .
 But I receive not testimony from man : but these things I say , that ye might be saved .
 He was a burning and a shining light : and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light .
 But I have greater witness than that of John : for the works which the Father hath given me to finish , the same works that I do , bear witness of me , that the Father hath sent me .
 And the Father himself , which hath sent me , hath borne witness of me . Ye have neither heard his voice at any time , nor seen his shape .
 And ye have not his word abiding in you : for whom he hath sent , him ye believe not .
 Search the scriptures ; for in them ye think ye have eternal life : and they are they which testify of me .
 And ye will not come to me , that ye might have life .
 I receive not honour from men .
 But I know you , that ye have not the love of God in you .
 I am come in my Father ' s name , and ye receive me not : if another shall come in his own name , him ye will receive .
 How can ye believe , which receive honour one of another , and seek not the honour that cometh from God only ?
 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father : there is one that accuseth you , even Moses , in whom ye trust .
 For had ye believed Moses , ye would have believed me : for he wrote of me .
 But if ye believe not his writings , how shall ye believe my words ?
After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee , which is the sea of Tiberias .
And a great multitude followed him , because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased .
And Jesus went up into a mountain , and there he sat with his disciples .
And the passover , a feast of the Jews , was nigh .
When Jesus then lifted up his eyes , and saw a great company come unto him , he saith unto Philip , Whence shall we buy bread , that these may eat ?
And this he said to prove him : for he himself knew what he would do .
Philip answered him , Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them , that every one of them may take a little .
One of his disciples , Andrew , Simon Peter ' s brother , saith unto him ,
There is a lad here , which hath five barley loaves , and two small fishes : but what are they among so many ?
And Jesus said , Make the men sit down . Now there was much grass in the place . So the men sat down , in number about five thousand .
And Jesus took the loaves ; and when he had given thanks , he distributed to the disciples , and the disciples to them that were set down ; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would .
When they were filled , he said unto his disciples , Gather up the fragments that remain , that nothing be lost .
Therefore they gathered them together , and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves , which remained over and above unto them that had eaten .
Then those men , when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did , said , This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world .
When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force , to make him a king , he departed again into a mountain himself alone .
And when even was now come , his disciples went down unto the sea ,
And entered into a ship , and went over the sea toward Capernaum . And it was now dark , and Jesus was not come to them .
And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew .
So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs , they see Jesus walking on the sea , and drawing nigh unto the ship : and they were afraid .
But he saith unto them , It is I ; be not afraid .
Then they willingly received him into the ship : and immediately the ship was at the land whither they went .
The day following , when the people which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was none other boat there , save that one whereinto his disciples were entered , and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat , but that his disciples were gone away alone ;
 (Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did eat bread , after that the Lord had given thanks : )
When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there , neither his disciples , they also took shipping , and came to Capernaum , seeking for Jesus .
And when they had found him on the other side of the sea , they said unto him , Rabbi , when camest thou hither ?
Jesus answered them and said , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Ye seek me , not because ye saw the miracles , but because ye did eat of the loaves , and were filled .
 Labour not for the meat which perisheth , but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life , which the Son of man shall give unto you : for him hath God the Father sealed .
Then said they unto him , What shall we do , that we might work the works of God ?
Jesus answered and said unto them , This is the work of God , that ye believe on him whom he hath sent .
They said therefore unto him , What sign shewest thou then , that we may see , and believe thee ? what dost thou work ?
Our fathers did eat manna in the desert ; as it is written , He gave them bread from heaven to eat .
Then Jesus said unto them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Moses gave you not that bread from heaven ; but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven .
 For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven , and giveth life unto the world .
Then said they unto him , Lord , evermore give us this bread .
And Jesus said unto them , I am the bread of life : he that cometh to me shall never hunger ; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst .
 But I said unto you , That ye also have seen me , and believe not .
 All that the Father giveth me shall come to me ; and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out .
 For I came down from heaven , not to do mine own will , but the will of him that sent me .
 And this is the Father ' s will which hath sent me , that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing , but should raise it up again at the last day .
 And this is the will of him that sent me , that every one which seeth the Son , and believeth on him , may have everlasting life : and I will raise him up at the last day .
The Jews then murmured at him , because he said , I am the bread which came down from heaven .
And they said , Is not this Jesus , the son of Joseph , whose father and mother we know ? how is it then that he saith , I came down from heaven ?
Jesus therefore answered and said unto them , Murmur not among yourselves .
 No man can come to me , except the Father which hath sent me draw him : and I will raise him up at the last day .
 It is written in the prophets , And they shall be all taught of God . Every man therefore that hath heard , and hath learned of the Father , cometh unto me .
 Not that any man hath seen the Father , save he which is of God , he hath seen the Father .
 Verily , verily , I say unto you , He that believeth on me hath everlasting life .
 I am that bread of life .
 Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness , and are dead . 50 This is the bread which cometh down from heaven , that a man may eat thereof , and not die . 51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven : if any man eat of this bread , he shall live for ever : and the bread that I will give is my flesh , which I will give for the life of the world . 52The Jews therefore strove among themselves , saying , How can this man give us his flesh to eat ? 53Then Jesus said unto them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man , and drink his blood , ye have no life in you . 54 Whoso eateth my flesh , and drinketh my blood , hath eternal life ; and I will raise him up at the last day . 55 For my flesh is meat indeed , and my blood is drink indeed . 56 He that eateth my flesh , and drinketh my blood , dwelleth in me , and I in him . 57 As the living Father hath sent me , and I live by the Father : so he that eateth me , even he shall live by me . 58 This is that bread which came down from heaven : not as your fathers did eat manna , and are dead : he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever . 59These things said he in the synagogue , as he taught in Capernaum . 60Many therefore of his disciples , when they had heard this , said , This is an hard saying ; who can hear it ? 61When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it , he said unto them , Doth this offend you ? 62 What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before ? 63 It is the spirit that quickeneth ; the flesh profiteth nothing : the words that I speak unto you , they are spirit , and they are life . 64 But there are some of you that believe not . For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not , and who should betray him . 65And he said , Therefore said I unto you , that no man can come unto me , except it were given unto him of my Father . 66From that time many of his disciples went back , and walked no more with him . 67Then said Jesus unto the twelve , Will ye also go away ? 68Then Simon Peter answered him , Lord , to whom shall we go ? thou hast the words of eternal life . 69And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ , the Son of the living God . 70Jesus answered them , Have not I chosen you twelve , and one of you is a devil ? 71He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon : for he it was that should betray him , being one of the twelve .
After these things Jesus walked in Galilee : for he would not walk in Jewry , because the Jews sought to kill him .
Now the Jews ' feast of tabernacles was at hand .
His brethren therefore said unto him , Depart hence , and go into Judaea , that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest .
For there is no man that doeth any thing in secret , and he himself seeketh to be known openly . If thou do these things , shew thyself to the world .
For neither did his brethren believe in him .
Then Jesus said unto them , My time is not yet come : but your time is alway ready .
 The world cannot hate you ; but me it hateth , because I testify of it , that the works thereof are evil .
 Go ye up unto this feast : I go not up yet unto this feast ; for my time is not yet full come .
When he had said these words unto them , he abode still in Galilee .
But when his brethren were gone up , then went he also up unto the feast , not openly , but as it were in secret .
Then the Jews sought him at the feast , and said , Where is he ?
And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him : for some said , He is a good man : others said , Nay ; but he deceiveth the people .
Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews .
Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple , and taught .
And the Jews marvelled , saying , How knoweth this man letters , having never learned ?
Jesus answered them , and said , My doctrine is not mine , but his that sent me .
 If any man will do his will , he shall know of the doctrine , whether it be of God , or whether I speak of myself .
 He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory : but he that seeketh his glory that sent him , the same is true , and no unrighteousness is in him .
 Did not Moses give you the law , and yet none of you keepeth the law ? Why go ye about to kill me ?
The people answered and said , Thou hast a devil : who goeth about to kill thee ?
Jesus answered and said unto them , I have done one work , and ye all marvel .
 Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision ; (not because it is of Moses , but of the fathers ; ) and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a man .
 If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision , that the law of Moses should not be broken ; are ye angry at me , because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day ?
 Judge not according to the appearance , but judge righteous judgment .
Then said some of them of Jerusalem , Is not this he , whom they seek to kill ?
But , lo , he speaketh boldly , and they say nothing unto him . Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ ?
Howbeit we know this man whence he is : but when Christ cometh , no man knoweth whence he is .
Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught , saying , Ye both know me , and ye know whence I am : and I am not come of myself , but he that sent me is true , whom ye know not .
 But I know him : for I am from him , and he hath sent me .
Then they sought to take him : but no man laid hands on him , because his hour was not yet come .
And many of the people believed on him , and said , When Christ cometh , will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done ?
The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him ; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him .
Then said Jesus unto them , Yet a little while am I with you , and then I go unto him that sent me .
 Ye shall seek me , and shall not find me : and where I am , thither ye cannot come .
Then said the Jews among themselves , Whither will he go , that we shall not find him ? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles , and teach the Gentiles ?
What manner of saying is this that he said , Ye shall seek me , and shall not find me : and where I am , thither ye cannot come ?
In the last day , that great day of the feast , Jesus stood and cried , saying , If any man thirst , let him come unto me , and drink .
 He that believeth on me , as the scripture hath said , out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water .
 (But this spake he of the Spirit , which they that believe on him should receive : for the Holy Ghost was not yet given ; because that Jesus was not yet glorified . )
Many of the people therefore , when they heard this saying , said , Of a truth this is the Prophet .
Others said , This is the Christ . But some said , Shall Christ come out of Galilee ?
Hath not the scripture said , That Christ cometh of the seed of David , and out of the town of Bethlehem , where David was ?
So there was a division among the people because of him .
And some of them would have taken him ; but no man laid hands on him .
Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees ; and they said unto them , Why have ye not brought him ?
The officers answered , Never man spake like this man .
Then answered them the Pharisees , Are ye also deceived ?
Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him ?
But this people who knoweth not the law are cursed . 50Nicodemus saith unto them , (he that came to Jesus by night , being one of them , ) 51Doth our law judge any man , before it hear him , and know what he doeth ? 52They answered and said unto him , Art thou also of Galilee ? Search , and look : for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet . 53And every man went unto his own house .
Jesus went unto the mount of Olives .
And early in the morning he came again into the temple , and all the people came unto him ; and he sat down , and taught them .
And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery ; and when they had set her in the midst ,
They say unto him , Master , this woman was taken in adultery , in the very act .
Now Moses in the law commanded us , that such should be stoned : but what sayest thou ?
This they said , tempting him , that they might have to accuse him . But Jesus stooped down , and with his finger wrote on the ground , as though he heard them not .
So when they continued asking him , he lifted up himself , and said unto them , He that is without sin among you , let him first cast a stone at her .
And again he stooped down , and wrote on the ground .
And they which heard it , being convicted by their own conscience , went out one by one , beginning at the eldest , even unto the last : and Jesus was left alone , and the woman standing in the midst .
When Jesus had lifted up himself , and saw none but the woman , he said unto her , Woman , where are those thine accusers ? hath no man condemned thee ?
She said , No man , Lord . And Jesus said unto her , Neither do I condemn thee : go , and sin no more .
Then spake Jesus again unto them , saying , I am the light of the world : he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness , but shall have the light of life .
The Pharisees therefore said unto him , Thou bearest record of thyself ; thy record is not true .
Jesus answered and said unto them , Though I bear record of myself , yet my record is true : for I know whence I came , and whither I go ; but ye cannot tell whence I come , and whither I go .
 Ye judge after the flesh ; I judge no man .
 And yet if I judge , my judgment is true : for I am not alone , but I and the Father that sent me .
 It is also written in your law , that the testimony of two men is true .
 I am one that bear witness of myself , and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me .
Then said they unto him , Where is thy Father ? Jesus answered , Ye neither know me , nor my Father : if ye had known me , ye should have known my Father also .
These words spake Jesus in the treasury , as he taught in the temple : and no man laid hands on him ; for his hour was not yet come .
Then said Jesus again unto them , I go my way , and ye shall seek me , and shall die in your sins : whither I go , ye cannot come .
Then said the Jews , Will he kill himself ? because he saith , Whither I go , ye cannot come .
And he said unto them , Ye are from beneath ; I am from above : ye are of this world ; I am not of this world .
 I said therefore unto you , that ye shall die in your sins : for if ye believe not that I am he , ye shall die in your sins .
Then said they unto him , Who art thou ? And Jesus saith unto them , Even the same that I said unto you from the beginning .
 I have many things to say and to judge of you : but he that sent me is true ; and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him .
They understood not that he spake to them of the Father .
Then said Jesus unto them , When ye have lifted up the Son of man , then shall ye know that I am he , and that I do nothing of myself ; but as my Father hath taught me , I speak these things .
 And he that sent me is with me : the Father hath not left me alone ; for I do always those things that please him .
As he spake these words , many believed on him .
Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him , If ye continue in my word , then are ye my disciples indeed ;
 And ye shall know the truth , and the truth shall make you free .
They answered him , We be Abraham ' s seed , and were never in bondage to any man : how sayest thou , Ye shall be made free ?
Jesus answered them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin .
 And the servant abideth not in the house for ever : but the Son abideth ever .
 If the Son therefore shall make you free , ye shall be free indeed .
 I know that ye are Abraham ' s seed ; but ye seek to kill me , because my word hath no place in you .
 I speak that which I have seen with my Father : and ye do that which ye have seen with your father .
They answered and said unto him , Abraham is our father . Jesus saith unto them , If ye were Abraham ' s children , ye would do the works of Abraham .
 But now ye seek to kill me , a man that hath told you the truth , which I have heard of God : this did not Abraham .
 Ye do the deeds of your father . Then said they to him , We be not born of fornication ; we have one Father , even God .
Jesus said unto them , If God were your Father , ye would love me : for I proceeded forth and came from God ; neither came I of myself , but he sent me .
 Why do ye not understand my speech ? even because ye cannot hear my word .
 Ye are of your father the devil , and the lusts of your father ye will do . He was a murderer from the beginning , and abode not in the truth , because there is no truth in him . When he speaketh a lie , he speaketh of his own : for he is a liar , and the father of it .
 And because I tell you the truth , ye believe me not .
 Which of you convinceth me of sin ? And if I say the truth , why do ye not believe me ?
 He that is of God heareth God ' s words : ye therefore hear them not , because ye are not of God .
Then answered the Jews , and said unto him , Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan , and hast a devil ?
Jesus answered , I have not a devil ; but I honour my Father , and ye do dishonour me . 50 And I seek not mine own glory : there is one that seeketh and judgeth . 51 Verily , verily , I say unto you , If a man keep my saying , he shall never see death . 52Then said the Jews unto him , Now we know that thou hast a devil . Abraham is dead , and the prophets ; and thou sayest , If a man keep my saying , he shall never taste of death . 53Art thou greater than our father Abraham , which is dead ? and the prophets are dead : whom makest thou thyself ? 54Jesus answered , If I honour myself , my honour is nothing : it is my Father that honoureth me ; of whom ye say , that he is your God : 55 Yet ye have not known him ; but I know him : and if I should say , I know him not , I shall be a liar like unto you : but I know him , and keep his saying . 56 Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day : and he saw it , and was glad . 57Then said the Jews unto him , Thou art not yet fifty years old , and hast thou seen Abraham ? 58Jesus said unto them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Before Abraham was , I am . 59Then took they up stones to cast at him : but Jesus hid himself , and went out of the temple , going through the midst of them , and so passed by .
