And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them , and he served them : and they continued a season in ward .
And when David enquired of the Lord , he said , Thou shalt not go up ; but fetch a compass behind them , and come upon them over against the mulberry trees .
When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good , he said unto Joseph , I also was in my dream , and , behold , I had three white baskets on my head :
Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men , such as fear God , men of truth , hating covetousness ; and place such over them , to be rulers of thousands , and rulers of hundreds , rulers of fifties , and rulers of tens :
And he hardened Pharaoh ' s heart , that he hearkened not unto them ; as the Lord had said .
And the Lord God called unto Adam , and said unto him , Where art thou ?
Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians , and how I bare you on eagles ' wings , and brought you unto myself .
But the servants of David had smitten of Benjamin , and of Abner ' s men , so that three hundred and threescore men died .
And it came to pass , when Joseph was come unto his brethren , that they stript Joseph out of his coat , his coat of many colours that was on him ;
And say , How have I hated instruction , and my heart despised reproof ;
And they called unto Lot , and said unto him , Where are the men which came in to thee this night ? bring them out unto us , that we may know them .
As the whirlwind passeth , so is the wicked no more : but the righteous is an everlasting foundation .
And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground : and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand , and on their left .
Article 30
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine , and knew not whence it was : (but the servants which drew the water knew ; ) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom ,
And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food , and that it was pleasant to the eyes , and a tree to be desired to make one wise , she took of the fruit thereof , and did eat , and gave also unto her husband with her ; and he did eat .
Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn , and to restore every man ' s money into his sack , and to give them provision for the way : and thus did he unto them .
And this day shall be unto you for a memorial ; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations ; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever .
Article 10
And he put the handmaids and their children foremost , and Leah and her children after , and Rachel and Joseph hindermost .
And Er , Judah ' s firstborn , was wicked in the sight of the Lord ; and the Lord slew him .
Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes , both we and our land ? buy us and our land for bread , and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh : and give us seed , that we may live , and not die , that the land be not desolate .
And the flood was forty days upon the earth ; and the waters increased , and bare up the ark , and it was lift up above the earth .
And she said , I pray you , let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves : so she came , and hath continued even from the morning until now , that she tarried a little in the house .
And Noah begat three sons , Shem , Ham , and Japheth .
Whoso is simple , let him turn in hither : and as for him that wanteth understanding , she saith to him ,
Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters : and they came and drew water , and filled the troughs to water their father ' s flock .
Who appeared in glory , and spake of his decease which he should accomplish at Jerusalem .
The officers answered , Never man spake like this man .
And he discerned him not , because his hands were hairy , as his brother Esau ' s hands : so he blessed him .
And the men were afraid , because they were brought into Joseph ' s house ; and they said , Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in ; that he may seek occasion against us , and fall upon us , and take us for bondmen , and our asses .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , saying ,
And again he said , Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God ?
And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years : and he died .
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth .
And Jesus answered and said unto them , For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept .
And there were set there six waterpots of stone , after the manner of the purifying of the Jews , containing two or three firkins apiece .
Go , and gather the elders of Israel together , and say unto them , The Lord God of your fathers , the God of Abraham , of Isaac , and of Jacob , appeared unto me , saying , I have surely visited you , and seen that which is done to you in Egypt :
And the frogs shall come up both on thee , and upon thy people , and upon all thy servants .
 Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy , Thy sins be forgiven thee ; or to say , Arise , and take up thy bed , and walk ?
Saying , The Son of man must suffer many things , and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes , and be slain , and be raised the third day .
And the Lord said unto Samuel , Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee : for they have not rejected thee , but they have rejected me , that I should not reign over them .
And Eleazar Aaron ' s son took him one of the daughters of Putiel to wife ; and she bare him Phinehas : these are the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families .
 And they shall come from the east , and from the west , and from the north , and from the south , and shall sit down in the kingdom of God .
Then Joseph said unto the people , Behold , I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh : lo , here is seed for you , and ye shall sow the land .
And he looked this way and that way , and when he saw that there was no man , he slew the Egyptian , and hid him in the sand .
And the evening and the morning were the fourth day .
Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread , and in the seventh day shall be a feast to the Lord .
And Samuel answered Saul , and said , I am the seer : go up before me unto the high place ; for ye shall eat with me to day , and to morrow I will let thee go , and will tell thee all that is in thine heart .
And it shall come to pass in the increase , that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh , and four parts shall be your own , for seed of the field , and for your food , and for them of your households , and for food for your little ones .
This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee , and manifested forth his glory ; and his disciples believed on him .
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration , without distinction of any kind , such as race , colour , sex , language , religion , political or other opinion , national or social origin , property , birth or other status . Furthermore , no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political , jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs , whether it be independent , trust , non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty .
Then Jesus said unto them , My time is not yet come : but your time is alway ready .
When thou liest down , thou shalt not be afraid : yea , thou shalt lie down , and thy sleep shall be sweet .
Behold now , thy servant hath found grace in thy sight , and thou hast magnified thy mercy , which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life ; and I cannot escape to the mountain , lest some evil take me , and I die :
And they arose early : and it came to pass about the spring of the day , that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house , saying , Up , that I may send thee away . And Saul arose , and they went out both of them , he and Samuel , abroad .
And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came : for the famine was in the land of Canaan .
And God said moreover unto Moses , Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel , The Lord God of your fathers , the God of Abraham , the God of Isaac , and the God of Jacob , hath sent me unto you : this is my name for ever , and this is my memorial unto all generations .
 But I receive not testimony from man : but these things I say , that ye might be saved .
 Sell that ye have , and give alms ; provide yourselves bags which wax not old , a treasure in the heavens that faileth not , where no thief approacheth , neither moth corrupteth .
And Samuel said , Gather all Israel to Mizpah , and I will pray for you unto the Lord .
For these two years hath the famine been in the land : and yet there are five years , in the which there shall neither be earing nor harvest .
 Let your loins be girded about , and your lights burning ;
 And ye have not his word abiding in you : for whom he hath sent , him ye believe not .
And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn , he espied his money ; for , behold , it was in his sack ' s mouth .
Then Jethro , Moses ' father in law , took Zipporah , Moses ' wife , after he had sent her back ,
And , behold , a man of the company cried out , saying , Master , I beseech thee , look upon my son : for he is mine only child .
 And I will say to my soul , Soul , thou hast much goods laid up for many years ; take thine ease , eat , drink , and be merry .
And it came to pass , when he was come near to enter into Egypt , that he said unto Sarai his wife , Behold now , I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon :
In the mean time , when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people , insomuch that they trode one upon another , he began to say unto his disciples first of all , Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees , which is hypocrisy .
 All that the Father giveth me shall come to me ; and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out .
And Joseph died , and all his brethren , and all that generation .
 How can ye believe , which receive honour one of another , and seek not the honour that cometh from God only ?
And the man brought the men into Joseph ' s house , and gave them water , and they washed their feet ; and he gave their asses provender .
 (She is loud and stubborn ; her feet abide not in her house :
Now thou art commanded , this do ye ; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones , and for your wives , and bring your father , and come .
And Adam called his wife ' s name Eve ; because she was the mother of all living .
And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them , he said to the ruler of his house , Bring these men home , and slay , and make ready ; for these men shall dine with me at noon .
No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence , under national or international law , at the time when it was committed . Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed .
And one of the company said unto him , Master , speak to my brother , that he divide the inheritance with me .
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof , then your eyes shall be opened , and ye shall be as gods , knowing good and evil .
And when Moses ' father in law saw all that he did to the people , he said , What is this thing that thou doest to the people ? why sittest thou thyself alone , and all the people stand by thee from morning unto even ?
He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame : and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot .
And his sister stood afar off , to wit what would be done to him .
Now therefore hearken unto me , O ye children : for blessed are they that keep my ways .
And if the household be too little for the lamb , let him and his neighbour next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls ; every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb .
Why saidst thou , She is my sister ? so I might have taken her to me to wife : now therefore behold thy wife , take her , and go thy way .
Article 11
And he had a son , whose name was Saul , a choice young man , and a goodly : and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he : from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people .
 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father : there is one that accuseth you , even Moses , in whom ye trust .
And I , behold , I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians , and they shall follow them : and I will get me honour upon Pharaoh , and upon all his host , upon his chariots , and upon his horsemen .
And Pharaoh ' s cup was in my hand : and I took the grapes , and pressed them into Pharaoh ' s cup , and I gave the cup into Pharaoh ' s hand .
When Jesus saw him lie , and knew that he had been now a long time in that case , he saith unto him , Wilt thou be made whole ?
Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him , Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders , but eat bread with unwashen hands ?
Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father .
And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about , saying , Take heed to yourselves , that ye go not up into the mount , or touch the border of it : whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to death :
For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver , and the gain thereof than fine gold .
And the firstborn bare a son , and called his name Moab : the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day .
Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate , and said , Tell me , I pray thee , where the seer ' s house is .
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon , nor any that come into Dagon ' s house , tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day .
But Jesus answered them , My Father worketh hitherto , and I work .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Stretch out thine hand over the sea , that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians , upon their chariots , and upon their horsemen .
So when they continued asking him , he lifted up himself , and said unto them , He that is without sin among you , let him first cast a stone at her .
Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee ; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field ;
Then came Amalek , and fought with Israel in Rephidim .
And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day , that Pharaoh should have the fifth part ; except the land of the priests only , which became not Pharaoh ' s .
And Moses said unto the people , Fear ye not , stand still , and see the salvation of the Lord , which he will shew to you to day : for the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day , ye shall see them again no more for ever .
And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph , and said to him , In my dream , behold , a vine was before me ;
And the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite , Rechab and Baanah , went , and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ish–bosheth , who lay on a bed at noon .
And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew .
The Lord recompense thy work , and a full reward be given thee of the Lord God of Israel , under whose wings thou art come to trust .
For he said , Because the Lord hath sworn that the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation .
And he saith unto them , Draw out now , and bear unto the governor of the feast . And they bare it .
And he said , God forbid that I should do so : but the man in whose hand the cup is found , he shall be my servant ; and as for you , get you up in peace unto your father .
This day came ye out in the month Abib .
The Jews then murmured at him , because he said , I am the bread which came down from heaven .
For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb , and her mouth is smoother than oil :
For the goodman is not at home , he is gone a long journey :
And David came to Baal–perazim , and David smote them there , and said , The Lord hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me , as the breach of waters . Therefore he called the name of that place Baal–perazim .
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel , saying , If ye do return unto the Lord with all your hearts , then put away the strange gods and Ashtoreth from among you , and prepare your hearts unto the Lord , and serve him only : and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines .
He shall die without instruction ; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray .
And when she could not longer hide him , she took for him an ark of bulrushes , and daubed it with slime and with pitch , and put the child therein ; and she laid it in the flags by the river ' s brink .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Write this for a memorial in a book , and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua : for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven .
And her two sons ; of which the name of the one was Gershom ; for he said , I have been an alien in a strange land :
Article 23
And Zilpah Leah ' s maid bare Jacob a son .
And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground , both man , and cattle , and the creeping things , and the fowl of the heaven ; and they were destroyed from the earth : and Noah only remained alive , and they that were with him in the ark .
And it came to pass , when she travailed , that the one put out his hand : and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread , saying , This came out first .
And he said unto them , What would ye that I should do for you ?
And they made their father drink wine that night : and the firstborn went in , and lay with her father ; and he perceived not when she lay down , nor when she arose .
And it came to pass , when Pharaoh would hardly let us go , that the Lord slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt , both the firstborn of man , and the firstborn of beast : therefore I sacrifice to the Lord all that openeth the matrix , being males ; but all the firstborn of my children I redeem .
And Rachel said , God hath judged me , and hath also heard my voice , and hath given me a son : therefore called she his name Dan .
And the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram ' s wife .
And Moses spake before the Lord , saying , Behold , the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me ; how then shall Pharaoh hear me , who am of uncircumcised lips ?
Article 8
And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings , he took Peter and John and James , and went up into a mountain to pray .
And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee ; and the mother of Jesus was there :
So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir .
And Pharaoh rose up in the night , he , and all his servants , and all the Egyptians ; and there was a great cry in Egypt ; for there was not a house where there was not one dead .
If thou be wise , thou shalt be wise for thyself : but if thou scornest , thou alone shalt bear it .
And Abner said to him , Turn thee aside to thy right hand or to thy left , and lay thee hold on one of the young men , and take thee his armour . But Asahel would not turn aside from following of him .
The Lord then answered him , and said , Thou hypocrite , doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall , and lead him away to watering ?
And they shall take of the blood , and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper door post of the houses , wherein they shall eat it .
Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground , and opened every man his sack .
His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself , and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins .
 If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision , that the law of Moses should not be broken ; are ye angry at me , because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day ?
And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press , they uncovered the roof where he was : and when they had broken it up , they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay .
And it came to pass on the morrow , that the firstborn said unto the younger , Behold , I lay yesternight with my father : let us make him drink wine this night also ; and go thou in , and lie with him , that we may preserve seed of our father .
Article 27
And when the children of Israel saw it , they said one to another , It is manna : for they wist not what it was . And Moses said unto them , This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat .
And said unto him , Behold , thou art old , and thy sons walk not in thy ways : now make us a king to judge us like all the nations .
I will pass through all thy flock to day , removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle , and all the brown cattle among the sheep , and the spotted and speckled among the goats : and of such shall be my hire .
And he came near , and kissed him : and he smelled the smell of his raiment , and blessed him , and said , See , the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the Lord hath blessed :
And he called the name of the place Massah , and Meribah , because of the chiding of the children of Israel , and because they tempted the Lord , saying , Is the Lord among us , or not ?
Jesus saith unto them , Fill the waterpots with water . And they filled them up to the brim .
And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna : and it was like coriander seed , white ; and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey .
And Jesus answering said unto them , They that are whole need not a physician ; but they that are sick .
And it came to pass , as he was alone praying , his disciples were with him : and he asked them , saying , Whom say the people that I am ?
And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of : The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits , the breadth of it fifty cubits , and the height of it thirty cubits .
Take also your brother , and arise , go again unto the man :
And the man increased exceedingly , and had much cattle , and maidservants , and menservants , and camels , and asses .
And he will take your menservants , and your maidservants , and your goodliest young men , and your asses , and put them to his work .
 For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven , and giveth life unto the world .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , saying ,
And when she had opened it , she saw the child : and , behold , the babe wept . And she had compassion on him , and said , This is one of the Hebrews ' children .
Now when Pharaoh heard this thing , he sought to slay Moses . But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh , and dwelt in the land of Midian : and he sat down by a well .
And Jacob took him rods of green poplar , and of the hazel and chesnut tree ; and pilled white strakes in them , and made the white appear which was in the rods .
 And that servant , which knew his lord ' s will , and prepared not himself , neither did according to his will , shall be beaten with many stripes .
Hath not the scripture said , That Christ cometh of the seed of David , and out of the town of Bethlehem , where David was ?
Length of days is in her right hand ; and in her left hand riches and honour .
And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt , in the country of Goshen ; and they had possessions therein , and grew , and multiplied exceedingly .
And she bare him a son , and he called his name Gershom : for he said , I have been a stranger in a strange land .
As the Lord commanded Moses , so Aaron laid it up before the Testimony , to be kept .
 Strive to enter in at the strait gate : for many , I say unto you , will seek to enter in , and shall not be able .
And Moses spake unto Aaron , Say unto all the congregation of the children of Israel , Come near before the Lord : for he hath heard your murmurings .
The wise in heart will receive commandments : but a prating fool shall fall .
But he knoweth not that the dead are there ; and that her guests are in the depths of hell .
And our father said , Go again , and buy us a little food .
And he arose from thence , and cometh into the coasts of Judaea by the farther side of Jordan : and the people resort unto him again ; and , as he was wont , he taught them again .
Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe ; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times ; and be thou ravished always with her love .
 Which of you convinceth me of sin ? And if I say the truth , why do ye not believe me ?
Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly ; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy .
 For as the Father raiseth up the dead , and quickeneth them ; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go in unto Pharaoh : for I have hardened his heart , and the heart of his servants , that I might shew these my signs before him :
 Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition , which ye have delivered : and many such like things do ye .
And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands , and upon the smooth of his neck :
Until thy brother ' s anger turn away from thee , and he forget that which thou hast done to him : then I will send , and fetch thee from thence : why should I be deprived also of you both in one day ?
 But rather seek ye the kingdom of God ; and all these things shall be added unto you .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Rise up early in the morning , and stand before Pharaoh ; lo , he cometh forth to the water ; and say unto him , Thus saith the Lord , Let my people go , that they may serve me .
 So is he that layeth up treasure for himself , and is not rich toward God .
And God hearkened unto Leah , and she conceived , and bare Jacob the fifth son .
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering , the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel : but the Lord thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines , and discomfited them ; and they were smitten before Israel .
And they said unto him , We can . And Jesus said unto them , Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of ; and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized :
And Rebekah said to Isaac , I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth : if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth , such as these which are of the daughters of the land , what good shall my life do me ?
And Judah said unto Israel his father , Send the lad with me , and we will arise and go ; that we may live , and not die , both we , and thou , and also our little ones .
And entered into a ship , and went over the sea toward Capernaum . And it was now dark , and Jesus was not come to them .
No one may be compelled to belong to an association .
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property .
And there went a man of the house of Levi , and took to wife a daughter of Levi .
 Verily , verily , I say unto you , He that heareth my word , and believeth on him that sent me , hath everlasting life , and shall not come into condemnation ; but is passed from death unto life .
My son , keep my words , and lay up my commandments with thee .
And the Pharisees said unto him , Behold , why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful ?
We are all one man ' s sons ; we are true men , thy servants are no spies .
Article 15
 And when they bring you unto the synagogues , and unto magistrates , and powers , take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall answer , or what ye shall say :
When therefore he was risen from the dead , his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them ; and they believed the scripture , and the word which Jesus had said .
And he told it to his father , and to his brethren : and his father rebuked him , and said unto him , What is this dream that thou hast dreamed ? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth ?
And Moses said unto the people , Remember this day , in which ye came out from Egypt , out of the house of bondage ; for by strength of hand the Lord brought you out from this place : there shall no leavened bread be eaten .
 I am that bread of life .
And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel , At even , then ye shall know that the Lord hath brought you out from the land of Egypt :
And Joseph saw Ephraim ' s children of the third generation : the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph ' s knees .
Nevertheless David took the strong hold of Zion : the same is the city of David .
And in the morning , then ye shall see the glory of the Lord ; for that he heareth your murmurings against the Lord : and what are we , that ye murmur against us ?
And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke , because the Lord descended upon it in fire : and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace , and the whole mount quaked greatly .
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth ; and all the high hills , that were under the whole heaven , were covered .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Yet will I bring one plague more upon Pharaoh , and upon Egypt ; afterwards he will let you go hence : when he shall let you go , he shall surely thrust you out hence altogether .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go down , charge the people , lest they break through unto the Lord to gaze , and many of them perish .
And when they had this done , they inclosed a great multitude of fishes : and their net brake .
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee , and shall hang thee on a tree ; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee .
Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden , to till the ground from whence he was taken .
But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples , saying , Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners ?
And he spake also a parable unto them ; No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon an old ; if otherwise , then both the new maketh a rent , and the piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the old .
We be twelve brethren , sons of our father ; one is not , and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan .
And he said unto her , For this saying go thy way ; the devil is gone out of thy daughter .
I was set up from everlasting , from the beginning , or ever the earth was .
Article 21
Then the Lord said unto Moses , Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh : for with a strong hand shall he let them go , and with a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land .
And the earth was without form , and void ; and darkness was upon the face of the deep . And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters .
And Moses said , This shall be , when the Lord shall give you in the evening flesh to eat , and in the morning bread to the full ; for that the Lord heareth your murmurings which ye murmur against him : and what are we ? your murmurings are not against us , but against the Lord .
Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family , including food , clothing , housing and medical care and necessary social services , and the right to security in the event of unemployment , sickness , disability , widowhood , old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control .
And Reuben answered them , saying , Spake I not unto you , saying , Do not sin against the child ; and ye would not hear ? therefore , behold , also his blood is required .
And said unto them , Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me : and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me : for he that is least among you all , the same shall be great .
And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are : and when I see the blood , I will pass over you , and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you , when I smite the land of Egypt .
And Herod said , John have I beheaded : but who is this , of whom I hear such things ? And he desired to see him .
Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover , in the feast day , many believed in his name , when they saw the miracles which he did .
And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father , we told him the words of my lord .
And he fell upon his brother Benjamin ' s neck , and wept ; and Benjamin wept upon his neck .
And Joseph returned into Egypt , he , and his brethren , and all that went up with him to bury his father , after he had buried his father .
Everyone has the right to a nationality .
For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan , and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah , which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite , before Mamre .
And he erected there an altar , and called it El–elohe–Israel .
And both Jesus was called , and his disciples , to the marriage .
And the Lord said unto Moses , Go on before the people , and take with thee of the elders of Israel ; and thy rod , wherewith thou smotest the river , take in thine hand , and go .
And the Lord appeared unto him , and said , Go not down into Egypt ; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of :
Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught , saying , Ye both know me , and ye know whence I am : and I am not come of myself , but he that sent me is true , whom ye know not .
Howbeit we know this man whence he is : but when Christ cometh , no man knoweth whence he is .
And the Lord said to Samuel , Hearken unto their voice , and make them a king . And Samuel said unto the men of Israel , Go ye every man unto his city .
And he said unto him , Man , who made me a judge or a divider over you ?
And he said unto them , The sabbath was made for man , and not man for the sabbath :
And he answered and said unto him , Master , all these have I observed from my youth .
But Jesus called them to him , and saith unto them , Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them ; and their great ones exercise authority upon them .
And God created great whales , and every living creature that moveth , which the waters brought forth abundantly , after their kind , and every winged fowl after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
And they shall fill thy houses , and the houses of all thy servants , and the houses of all the Egyptians ; which neither thy fathers , nor thy fathers ' fathers have seen , since the day that they were upon the earth unto this day . And he turned himself , and went out from Pharaoh .
And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast : and they come and say unto him , Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast , but thy disciples fast not ?
They are all plain to him that understandeth , and right to them that find knowledge .
And the evening and the morning were the fifth day .
And a great multitude followed him , because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased .
And , behold , I , even I , do bring a flood of waters upon the earth , to destroy all flesh , wherein is the breath of life , from under heaven ; and every thing that is in the earth shall die .
Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah .
And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years , and he begat Enoch :
And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh , and they did so as the Lord had commanded : and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh , and before his servants , and it became a serpent .
 Ye sent unto John , and he bare witness unto the truth .
But when Jesus perceived their thoughts , he answering said unto them , What reason ye in your hearts ?
Reprove not a scorner , lest he hate thee : rebuke a wise man , and he will love thee .
And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years , and begat sons and daughters :
Then they willingly received him into the ship : and immediately the ship was at the land whither they went .
They answered him , We be Abraham ' s seed , and were never in bondage to any man : how sayest thou , Ye shall be made free ?
And God made the beast of the earth after his kind , and cattle after their kind , and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind : and God saw that it was good .
And he went through the cities and villages , teaching , and journeying toward Jerusalem .
And now the Lord shew kindness and truth unto you : and I also will requite you this kindness , because ye have done this thing .
 Also I say unto you , Whosoever shall confess me before men , him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God :
And all the people saw the thunderings , and the lightnings , and the noise of the trumpet , and the mountain smoking : and when the people saw it , they removed , and stood afar off .
When he gave to the sea his decree , that the waters should not pass his commandment : when he appointed the foundations of the earth :
Article 29
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image , or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above , or that is in the earth beneath , or that is in the water under the earth :
Come , let us make our father drink wine , and we will lie with him , that we may preserve seed of our father .
And James and John , the sons of Zebedee , come unto him , saying , Master , we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire .
And again , departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon , he came unto the sea of Galilee , through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis .
And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph ' s house ; for he was yet there : and they fell before him on the ground .
Male and female created he them ; and blessed them , and called their name Adam , in the day when they were created .
And the officers of the children of Israel , which Pharaoh ' s taskmasters had set over them , were beaten , and demanded , Wherefore have ye not fulfilled your task in making brick both yesterday and to day , as heretofore ?
And the Lord said unto Moses , How long refuse ye to keep my commandments and my laws ?
And all flesh died that moved upon the earth , both of fowl , and of cattle , and of beast , and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth , and every man :
And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth .
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph , Say unto thy brethren , This do ye ; lade your beasts , and go , get you unto the land of Canaan ;
For the Pharisees , and all the Jews , except they wash their hands oft , eat not , holding the tradition of the elders .
And it came to pass , while the ark abode in Kirjath–jearim , that the time was long ; for it was twenty years : and all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord .
And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning ; and that which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire .
And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven , and will give unto thy seed all these countries ; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed ;
After this he went down to Capernaum , he , and his mother , and his brethren , and his disciples : and they continued there not many days .
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years : and he died .
Let people serve thee , and nations bow down to thee : be lord over thy brethren , and let thy mother ' s sons bow down to thee : cursed be every one that curseth thee , and blessed be he that blesseth thee .
Thus saith the Lord , In this thou shalt know that I am the Lord : behold , I will smite with the rod that is in mine hand upon the waters which are in the river , and they shall be turned to blood .
Keep my commandments , and live ; and my law as the apple of thine eye .
And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh : and he said unto them , Go , serve the Lord your God : but who are they that shall go ?
And they shall eat the flesh in that night , roast with fire , and unleavened bread ; and with bitter herbs they shall eat it .
Bind them upon thy fingers , write them upon the table of thine heart .
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal , in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him .
A proud look , a lying tongue , and hands that shed innocent blood ,
And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord , and dwelt in the land of Nod , on the east of Eden .
Then said the Jews among themselves , Whither will he go , that we shall not find him ? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles , and teach the Gentiles ?
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations ; Gershon , and Kohath , and Merari : and the years of the life of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven years .
And Moses was content to dwell with the man : and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter .
And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers , against the chief of the butlers , and against the chief of the bakers .
And the sons of Izhar ; Korah , and Nepheg , and Zichri .
And it came to pass , as Aaron spake unto the whole congregation of the children of Israel , that they looked toward the wilderness , and , behold , the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud .
The righteous shall never be removed : but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth .
One law shall be to him that is homeborn , and unto the stranger that sojourneth among you . 50Thus did all the children of Israel ; as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron , so did they . 51And it came to pass the selfsame day , that the Lord did bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies .
My son , despise not the chastening of the Lord ; neither be weary of his correction :
And , behold , there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years , and was bowed together , and could in no wise lift up herself .
And he passed over before them , and bowed himself to the ground seven times , until he came near to his brother .
And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons for ever .
Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron . And it came to pass , as the ark of God came to Ekron , that the Ekronites cried out , saying , They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us , to slay us and our people .
And afterwards she bare a daughter , and called her name Dinah .
And the Lord said unto him , Away , get thee down , and thou shalt come up , thou , and Aaron with thee : but let not the priests and the people break through to come up unto the Lord , lest he break forth upon them .
For the froward is abomination to the Lord : but his secret is with the righteous .
Speak now in the ears of the people , and let every man borrow of his neighbour , and every woman of her neighbour , jewels of silver , and jewels of gold .
 For I came down from heaven , not to do mine own will , but the will of him that sent me .
And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon : for they heard that they should eat bread there .
And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought forth out of Egypt , for it was not leavened ; because they were thrust out of Egypt , and could not tarry , neither had they prepared for themselves any victual .
And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush : and he looked , and , behold , the bush burned with fire , and the bush was not consumed .
And Samuel told him every whit , and hid nothing from him . And he said , It is the Lord : let him do what seemeth him good .
And Esau said unto his father , Hast thou but one blessing , my father ? bless me , even me also , O my father . And Esau lifted up his voice , and wept .
And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father : and the physicians embalmed Israel .
Of fowls also of the air by sevens , the male and the female ; to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth .
I have perfumed my bed with myrrh , aloes , and cinnamon .
And they shall hearken to thy voice : and thou shalt come , thou and the elders of Israel , unto the king of Egypt , and ye shall say unto him , The Lord God of the Hebrews hath met with us : and now let us go , we beseech thee , three days ' journey into the wilderness , that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God .
And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery ; and when they had set her in the midst ,
Be not afraid of sudden fear , neither of the desolation of the wicked , when it cometh .
And Isaac departed thence , and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar , and dwelt there .
Hearken unto me now therefore , O ye children , and attend to the words of my mouth .
And Jacob said , Nay , I pray thee , if now I have found grace in thy sight , then receive my present at my hand : for therefore I have seen thy face , as though I had seen the face of God , and thou wast pleased with me .
Behold , thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth ; and from thy face shall I be hid ; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth ; and it shall come to pass , that every one that findeth me shall slay me .
 And he thought within himself , saying , What shall I do , because I have no room where to bestow my fruits ?
For jealousy is the rage of a man : therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance .
And Rachel said , With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister , and I have prevailed : and she called his name Naphtali .
 But if ye believe not his writings , how shall ye believe my words ?
Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance . All children , whether born in or out of wedlock , shall enjoy the same social protection .
And Adam knew his wife again ; and she bare a son , and called his name Seth : For God , said she , hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel , whom Cain slew .
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah , and pursued the Philistines , and smote them , until they came under Beth–car .
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years : and he begat sons and daughters :
And they said , Thou hast saved our lives : let us find grace in the sight of my lord , and we will be Pharaoh ' s servants .
And Aaron took him Elisheba , daughter of Amminadab , sister of Nahshon , to wife ; and she bare him Nadab , and Abihu , Eleazar , and Ithamar .
Then answered Jesus and said unto them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , The Son can do nothing of himself , but what he seeth the Father do : for what things soever he doeth , these also doeth the Son likewise .
Hear instruction , and be wise , and refuse it not .
 Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness , and are dead . 50 This is the bread which cometh down from heaven , that a man may eat thereof , and not die . 51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven : if any man eat of this bread , he shall live for ever : and the bread that I will give is my flesh , which I will give for the life of the world . 52The Jews therefore strove among themselves , saying , How can this man give us his flesh to eat ? 53Then Jesus said unto them , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man , and drink his blood , ye have no life in you . 54 Whoso eateth my flesh , and drinketh my blood , hath eternal life ; and I will raise him up at the last day . 55 For my flesh is meat indeed , and my blood is drink indeed . 56 He that eateth my flesh , and drinketh my blood , dwelleth in me , and I in him . 57 As the living Father hath sent me , and I live by the Father : so he that eateth me , even he shall live by me . 58 This is that bread which came down from heaven : not as your fathers did eat manna , and are dead : he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever . 59These things said he in the synagogue , as he taught in Capernaum . 60Many therefore of his disciples , when they had heard this , said , This is an hard saying ; who can hear it ? 61When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it , he said unto them , Doth this offend you ? 62 What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before ? 63 It is the spirit that quickeneth ; the flesh profiteth nothing : the words that I speak unto you , they are spirit , and they are life . 64 But there are some of you that believe not . For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not , and who should betray him . 65And he said , Therefore said I unto you , that no man can come unto me , except it were given unto him of my Father . 66From that time many of his disciples went back , and walked no more with him . 67Then said Jesus unto the twelve , Will ye also go away ? 68Then Simon Peter answered him , Lord , to whom shall we go ? thou hast the words of eternal life . 69And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ , the Son of the living God . 70Jesus answered them , Have not I chosen you twelve , and one of you is a devil ? 71He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon : for he it was that should betray him , being one of the twelve .
Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific , literary or artistic production of which he is the author .
And when they saw him afar off , even before he came near unto them , they conspired against him to slay him .
A foolish woman is clamorous : she is simple , and knoweth nothing .
For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night , and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt , both man and beast ; and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment : I am the Lord .
And he knew it , and said , It is my son ' s coat ; an evil beast hath devoured him ; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces .
Wherefore say unto the children of Israel , I am the Lord , and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians , and I will rid you out of their bondage , and I will redeem you with a stretched out arm , and with great judgments :
And Moses said , Thou hast spoken well , I will see thy face again no more .
When he had said these words unto them , he abode still in Galilee .
When thou tillest the ground , it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength ; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth .
And Noah did according unto all that the Lord commanded him .
And God said , Behold , I have given you every herb bearing seed , which is upon the face of all the earth , and every tree , in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for meat .
And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years , and begat sons and daughters :
And the eyes of them both were opened , and they knew that they were naked ; and they sewed fig leaves together , and made themselves aprons .
The Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim .
And it came to pass , when Moses held up his hand , that Israel prevailed : and when he let down his hand , Amalek prevailed .
 But from the beginning of the creation God made them male and female .
That thou mayest walk in the way of good men , and keep the paths of the righteous .
If ye be true men , let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison : go ye , carry corn for the famine of your houses :
 For what is a man advantaged , if he gain the whole world , and lose himself , or be cast away ?
And Jesus said unto them , I am the bread of life : he that cometh to me shall never hunger ; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst .
My son , let not them depart from thine eyes : keep sound wisdom and discretion :
Improvement is family income increasing.
And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus , and sought to slay him , because he had done these things on the sabbath day .
For , behold , we were binding sheaves in the field , and , lo , my sheaf arose , and also stood upright ; and , behold , your sheaves stood round about , and made obeisance to my sheaf .
And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest , and found mandrakes in the field , and brought them unto his mother Leah . Then Rachel said to Leah , Give me , I pray thee , of thy son ' s mandrakes .
And there will I nourish thee ; for yet there are five years of famine ; lest thou , and thy household , and all that thou hast , come to poverty .
 I receive not honour from men .
But every man ' s servant that is bought for money , when thou hast circumcised him , then shall he eat thereof .
And the taskmasters hasted them , saying , Fulfil your works , your daily tasks , as when there was straw .
And Judah said , What shall we say unto my lord ? what shall we speak ? or how shall we clear ourselves ? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants : behold , we are my lord ' s servants , both we , and he also with whom the cup is found .
And it came to pass , whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive , that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters , that they might conceive among the rods .
The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him ; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him .
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel , from Ekron even unto Gath ; and the coasts thereof did Israel deliver out of the hands of the Philistines . And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites .
 But and if that servant say in his heart , My lord delayeth his coming ; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens , and to eat and drink , and to be drunken ;
When one told me , saying , Behold , Saul is dead , thinking to have brought good tidings , I took hold of him , and slew him in Ziklag , who thought that I would have given him a reward for his tidings :
And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long , and waxed louder and louder , Moses spake , and God answered him by a voice .
Honour thy father and thy mother : that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee .
And his return was to Ramah ; for there was his house ; and there he judged Israel ; and there he built an altar unto the Lord .
Jesus answered them , and said , My doctrine is not mine , but his that sent me .
And Joab said , As God liveth , unless thou hadst spoken , surely then in the morning the people had gone up every one from following his brother .
Then the handmaidens came near , they and their children , and they bowed themselves .
And it came to pass , when God destroyed the cities of the plain , that God remembered Abraham , and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow , when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt .
 Marvel not at this : for the hour is coming , in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice ,
 Because it entereth not into his heart , but into the belly , and goeth out into the draught , purging all meats ?
And the fish that was in the river died ; and the river stank , and the Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river ; and there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt .
And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son , saying , Behold , I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother , saying ,
And Joseph answered and said , This is the interpretation thereof : The three baskets are three days :
Unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skins , and clothed them .
For my mouth shall speak truth ; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips .
And we said unto my lord , We have a father , an old man , and a child of his old age , a little one ; and his brother is dead , and he alone is left of his mother , and his father loveth him .
Eat not of it raw , nor sodden at all with water , but roast with fire ; his head with his legs , and with the purtenance thereof .
Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth , thou art taken with the words of thy mouth .
David was thirty years old when he began to reign , and he reigned forty years .
And when they had brought their ships to land , they forsook all , and followed him .
And he said , Now also let it be according unto your words : he with whom it is found shall be my servant ; and ye shall be blameless .
Everyone , as a member of society , has the right to social security and is entitled to realization , through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State , of the economic , social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality .
And Moses said , Let no man leave of it till the morning .
So Moses went down unto the people , and spake unto them .
And they said unto him , Wherefore saith my lord these words ? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing :
And he said unto the people , Be ready against the third day : come not at your wives .
And they were astonished out of measure , saying among themselves , Who then can be saved ?
And the flocks conceived before the rods , and brought forth cattle ringstraked , speckled , and spotted .
And I will stretch out my hand , and smite Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in the midst thereof : and after that he will let you go .
An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations , feet that be swift in running to mischief ,
And the Lord said unto Moses , Stretch out thine hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts , that they may come up upon the land of Egypt , and eat every herb of the land , even all that the hail hath left .
Leave me alone!
But they understood not this saying , and it was hid from them , that they perceived it not : and they feared to ask him of that saying .
Passing through the street near her corner ; and he went the way to her house ,
Thou shalt not steal .
In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months : and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah .
 All these evil things come from within , and defile the man .
And they set on for him by himself , and for them by themselves , and for the Egyptians , which did eat with him , by themselves : because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews ; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians .
And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me , and keep my commandments .
And when they had found him on the other side of the sea , they said unto him , Rabbi , when camest thou hither ?
Come now therefore , and let us slay him , and cast him into some pit , and we will say , Some evil beast hath devoured him : and we shall see what will become of his dreams .
And Laban said , Behold , I would it might be according to thy word .
And when the inhabitants of the land , the Canaanites , saw the mourning in the floor of Atad , they said , This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians : wherefore the name of it was called Abel–mizraim , which is beyond Jordan .
And Esau said , Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me . And he said , What needeth it ? let me find grace in the sight of my lord .
And she yet again conceived , and bare a son ; and called his name Shelah : and he was at Chezib , when she bare him .
Tomorrow I will clean the bathroom.
And Jacob lifted up his eyes , and looked , and , behold , Esau came , and with him four hundred men . And he divided the children unto Leah , and unto Rachel , and unto the two handmaids .
And Jacob blessed Pharaoh , and went out from before Pharaoh .
Haste thee , escape thither ; for I cannot do any thing till thou be come thither . Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar .
And told him , saying , Joseph is yet alive , and he is governor over all the land of Egypt . And Jacob ' s heart fainted , for he believed them not .
 But he that knew not , and did commit things worthy of stripes , shall be beaten with few stripes . For unto whomsoever much is given , of him shall be much required : and to whom men have committed much , of him they will ask the more .
Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community , to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits .
My fruit is better than gold , yea , than fine gold ; and my revenue than choice silver .
And as he passed by , he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the receipt of custom , and said unto him , Follow me . And he arose and followed him .
And they said unto Moses , Because there were no graves in Egypt , hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness ? wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us , to carry us forth out of Egypt ?
And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him : and Esau said in his heart , The days of mourning for my father are at hand ; then will I slay my brother Jacob .
And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt , saying ,
And thou shalt bring it to thy father , that he may eat , and that he may bless thee before his death .
But Abner the son of Ner , captain of Saul ' s host , took Ish–bosheth the son of Saul , and brought him over to Mahanaim ;
Of fowls after their kind , and of cattle after their kind , of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind , two of every sort shall come unto thee , to keep them alive .
And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives , of which the name of the one was Shiphrah , and the name of the other Puah :
And they answered them , and said , He is ; behold , he is before you : make haste now , for he came to day to the city ; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place :
And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt ; and the frogs came up , and covered the land of Egypt .
Where's the bathroom?
And he left all , rose up , and followed him .
And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God . But while they wondered every one at all things which Jesus did , he said unto his disciples ,
So shall they be life unto thy soul , and grace to thy neck .
Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers : now the magicians of Egypt , they also did in like manner with their enchantments .
And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea , and the sea returned to his strength when the morning appeared ; and the Egyptians fled against it ; and the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea .
And it came to pass , that at midnight the Lord smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt , from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat on his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that was in the dungeon ; and all the firstborn of cattle .
And it came to pass , when Samuel was old , that he made his sons judges over Israel .
And as they were going down to the end of the city , Samuel said to Saul , Bid the servant pass on before us , (and he passed on , ) but stand thou still a while , that I may shew thee the word of God .
And David enquired of the Lord , saying , Shall I go up to the Philistines ? wilt thou deliver them into mine hand ? And the Lord said unto David , Go up : for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into thine hand .
And Moses let his father in law depart ; and he went his way into his own land .
Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt , Jacob said unto his sons , Why do ye look one upon another ?
But the Lord hardened Pharaoh ' s heart , and he would not let them go .
And God said , Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night ; and let them be for signs , and for seasons , and for days , and years :
Doth not wisdom cry ? and understanding put forth her voice ?
And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigour :
And Joseph knew his brethren , but they knew not him .
And it came to pass , because the midwives feared God , that he made them houses .
And when Samuel saw Saul , the Lord said unto him , Behold the man whom I spake to thee of ! this same shall reign over my people .
And Enoch lived sixty and five years , and begat Methuselah :
He will not regard any ransom ; neither will he rest content , though thou givest many gifts .
And Pharaoh commanded the same day the taskmasters of the people , and their officers , saying ,
 Did not Moses give you the law , and yet none of you keepeth the law ? Why go ye about to kill me ?
And Joseph came in unto them in the morning , and looked upon them , and , behold , they were sad .
 It is like leaven , which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal , till the whole was leavened .
 And ought not this woman , being a daughter of Abraham , whom Satan hath bound , lo , these eighteen years , be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day ?
When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force , to make him a king , he departed again into a mountain himself alone .
In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk , of blind , halt , withered , waiting for the moving of the water .
And Samuel took a sucking lamb , and offered it for a burnt offering wholly unto the Lord : and Samuel cried unto the Lord for Israel ; and the Lord heard him .
If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold , truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold .
And in process of time it came to pass , that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord .
And , lo , a spirit taketh him , and he suddenly crieth out ; and it teareth him that he foameth again , and bruising him hardly departeth from him .
The impotent man answered him , Sir , I have no man , when the water is troubled , to put me into the pool : but while I am coming , another steppeth down before me .
And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth , and it grieved him at his heart .
Therefore they gathered them together , and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves , which remained over and above unto them that had eaten .
Riches and honour are with me ; yea , durable riches and righteousness .
And when the morning arose , then the angels hastened Lot , saying , Arise , take thy wife , and thy two daughters , which are here ; lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city .
Now therefore , my son , obey my voice according to that which I command thee .
After these things Jesus walked in Galilee : for he would not walk in Jewry , because the Jews sought to kill him .
And she put her widow ' s garments off from her , and covered her with a veil , and wrapped herself , and sat in an open place , which is by the way to Timnah ; for she saw that Shelah was grown , and she was not given unto him to wife .
So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end of barley harvest and of wheat harvest ; and dwelt with her mother in law .
But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding : he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul .
And Samuel heard all the words of the people , and he rehearsed them in the ears of the Lord .
And Moses said , I will now turn aside , and see this great sight , why the bush is not burnt .
After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee , which is the sea of Tiberias .
And he said , Draw not nigh hither : put off thy shoes from off thy feet , for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground .
And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months .
And the Egyptians pursued , and went in after them to the midst of the sea , even all Pharaoh ' s horses , his chariots , and his horsemen .
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years : and he died .
And his men that were with him did David bring up , every man with his household : and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron .
And make me savoury meat , such as I love , and bring it to me , that I may eat ; that my soul may bless thee before I die .
And the Lord gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians . Moreover the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt , in the sight of Pharaoh ' s servants , and in the sight of the people .
Reuben , Simeon , Levi , and Judah ,
That ye shall say , It is the sacrifice of the Lord ' s passover , who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt , when he smote the Egyptians , and delivered our houses . And the people bowed the head and worshipped .
And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem ; and Jesus went before them : and they were amazed ; and as they followed , they were afraid . And he took again the twelve , and began to tell them what things should happen unto him ,
And David went on , and grew great , and the Lord God of hosts was with him .
And he said , Peace be to you , fear not : your God , and the God of your father , hath given you treasure in your sacks : I had your money . And he brought Simeon out unto them .
Then said Saul to his servant , But , behold , if we go , what shall we bring the man ? for the bread is spent in our vessels , and there is not a present to bring to the man of God : what have we ?
 That all men should honour the Son , even as they honour the Father . He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him .
And Samuel lay until the morning , and opened the doors of the house of the Lord . And Samuel feared to shew Eli the vision .
They said moreover unto Pharaoh , For to sojourn in the land are we come ; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks ; for the famine is sore in the land of Canaan : now therefore , we pray thee , let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen .
 I can of mine own self do nothing : as I hear , I judge : and my judgment is just ; because I seek not mine own will , but the will of the Father which hath sent me .
And he said unto them , Go ye , and tell that fox , Behold , I cast out devils , and I do cures to day and to morrow , and the third day I shall be perfected .
Else , if thou refuse to let my people go , behold , to morrow will I bring the locusts into thy coast :
Then Isaac sowed in that land , and received in the same year an hundredfold : and the Lord blessed him .
And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves , and the changers of money sitting :
Strive not with a man without cause , if he have done thee no harm .
With whomsoever of thy servants it be found , both let him die , and we also will be my lord ' s bondmen .
And he took some of his brethren , even five men , and presented them unto Pharaoh .
 But he shall say , I tell you , I know you not whence ye are ; depart from me , all ye workers of iniquity .
 For the Father loveth the Son , and sheweth him all things that himself doeth : and he will shew him greater works than these , that ye may marvel .
Come on , let us deal wisely with them ; lest they multiply , and it come to pass , that , when there falleth out any war , they join also unto our enemies , and fight against us , and so get them up out of the land .
Lust not after her beauty in thine heart ; neither let her take thee with her eyelids .
 And if a woman shall put away her husband , and be married to another , she committeth adultery .
And he will take your fields , and your vineyards , and your oliveyards , even the best of them , and give them to his servants .
And he put forth his hand , and touched him , saying , I will : be thou clean . And immediately the leprosy departed from him .
He said unto them , But whom say ye that I am ? Peter answering said , The Christ of God .
And Abner said again to Asahel , Turn thee aside from following me : wherefore should I smite thee to the ground ? how then should I hold up my face to Joab thy brother ?
And the sons of Uzziel ; Mishael , and Elzaphan , and Zithri .
 But so shall it not be among you : but whosoever will be great among you , shall be your minister :
But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth , and the transgressors shall be rooted out of it .
 For where your treasure is , there will your heart be also .
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason , saying , Who is this which speaketh blasphemies ? Who can forgive sins , but God alone ?
And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud , to lead them the way ; and by night in a pillar of fire , to give them light ; to go by day and night :
And the children of Israel were fruitful , and increased abundantly , and multiplied , and waxed exceeding mighty ; and the land was filled with them .
And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt , and he pursued after the children of Israel : and the children of Israel went out with an high hand .
And God said , Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters , and let it divide the waters from the waters .
But with thee will I establish my covenant ; and thou shalt come into the ark , thou , and thy sons , and thy wife , and thy sons ' wives with thee .
And the passover , a feast of the Jews , was nigh .
 For all these things do the nations of the world seek after : and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things .
And Samuel took Saul and his servant , and brought them into the parlour , and made them sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden , which were about thirty persons .
Thou shalt therefore keep this ordinance in his season from year to year .
For the Lord shall be thy confidence , and shall keep thy foot from being taken .
And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite , to receive his pledge from the woman ' s hand : but he found her not .
But lift thou up thy rod , and stretch out thine hand over the sea , and divide it : and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea .
Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord , neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him .
And of some , that Elias had appeared ; and of others , that one of the old prophets was risen again .
Now therefore , behold , the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me : and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppress them .
And he withdrew himself into the wilderness , and prayed .
And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel , saying , God will surely visit you , and ye shall carry up my bones from hence .
Go now to the flock , and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats ; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father , such as he loveth :
By me princes rule , and nobles , even all the judges of the earth .
But Jesus said unto her , Let the children first be filled : for it is not meet to take the children ' s bread , and to cast it unto the dogs .
So the people rested on the seventh day .
Now these are the names of the children of Israel , which came into Egypt ; every man and his household came with Jacob .
And when the voice was past , Jesus was found alone . And they kept it close , and told no man in those days any of those things which they had seen .
The fear of the Lord prolongeth days : but the years of the wicked shall be shortened .
And it came to pass , that , as Jesus sat at meat in his house , many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and his disciples : for there were many , and they followed him .
But if thou wilt not send him , we will not go down : for the man said unto us , Ye shall not see my face , except your brother be with you .
Article 9
The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom : but the froward tongue shall be cut out .
Therefore came I forth to meet thee , diligently to seek thy face , and I have found thee .
And she conceived again , and bare a son ; and she called his name Onan .
Yet a little sleep , a little slumber , a little folding of the hands to sleep :
Then said the Lord unto Moses , Behold , I will rain bread from heaven for you ; and the people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day , that I may prove them , whether they will walk in my law , or no .
And as he was yet a coming , the devil threw him down , and tare him . And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit , and healed the child , and delivered him again to his father .
And he will take the tenth of your seed , and of your vineyards , and give to his officers , and to his servants .
She hath killed her beasts ; she hath mingled her wine ; she hath also furnished her table .
 Verily , verily , I say unto you , The hour is coming , and now is , when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God : and they that hear shall live .
And the men said unto Lot , Hast thou here any besides ? son in law , and thy sons , and thy daughters , and whatsoever thou hast in the city , bring them out of this place :
And the people took their dough before it was leavened , their kneadingtroughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders .
And Moses said unto Aaron , Take a pot , and put an omer full of manna therein , and lay it up before the Lord , to be kept for your generations .
When that year was ended , they came unto him the second year , and said unto him , We will not hide it from my lord , how that our money is spent ; my lord also hath our herds of cattle ; there is not ought left in the sight of my lord , but our bodies , and our lands :
And the magicians did so with their enchantments , and brought up frogs upon the land of Egypt .
Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth ; and thy labours be in the house of a stranger ;
And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness :
And Israel said , Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me , as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother ?
Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven ;
And Isaac his father answered and said unto him , Behold , thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth , and of the dew of heaven from above ;
And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years , and begat sons and daughters :
And it came to pass at that time , when Eli was laid down in his place , and his eyes began to wax dim , that he could not see ;
For the commandment is a lamp ; and the law is light ; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life :
When Jesus heard it , he saith unto them , They that are whole have no need of the physician , but they that are sick : I came not to call the righteous , but sinners to repentance .
And I will bless them that bless thee , and curse him that curseth thee : and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed .
 But I know him : for I am from him , and he hath sent me .
 For there is nothing covered , that shall not be revealed ; neither hid , that shall not be known .
And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years , and begat a son in his own likeness , after his image ; and called his name Seth :
I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel : speak unto them , saying , At even ye shall eat flesh , and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread ; and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God .
 (Beforetime in Israel , when a man went to enquire of God , thus he spake , Come , and let us go to the seer : for he that is now called a Prophet was beforetime called a Seer . )
And , behold , men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a palsy : and they sought means to bring him in , and to lay him before him .
And the shepherds came and drove them away : but Moses stood up and helped them , and watered their flock .
And saw two ships standing by the lake : but the fishermen were gone out of them , and were washing their nets .
And all the Egyptians digged round about the river for water to drink ; for they could not drink of the water of the river .
As vinegar to the teeth , and as smoke to the eyes , so is the sluggard to them that send him .
Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews .
Else , if thou wilt not let my people go , behold , I will send swarms of flies upon thee , and upon thy servants , and upon thy people , and into thy houses : and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of flies , and also the ground whereon they are .
And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah , and toward all the land of the plain , and beheld , and , lo , the smoke of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace .
How much is this?
They , and every beast after his kind , and all the cattle after their kind , and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind , and every fowl after his kind , every bird of every sort .
Now therefore , my son , obey my voice ; and arise , flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran ;
Article 28
And Moses was fourscore years old , and Aaron fourscore and three years old , when they spake unto Pharaoh .
And we said , We cannot go down : if our youngest brother be with us , then will we go down : for we may not see the man ' s face , except our youngest brother be with us .
And while he lingered , the men laid hold upon his hand , and upon the hand of his wife , and upon the hand of his two daughters ; the Lord being merciful unto him : and they brought him forth , and set him without the city .
When Jethro , the priest of Midian , Moses ' father in law , heard of all that God had done for Moses , and for Israel his people , and that the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt ;
And when they arose early on the morrow morning , behold , Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of the Lord ; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold ; only the stump of Dagon was left to him .
Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests .
Have a nice day
And David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother , the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite , and said unto them , As the Lord liveth , who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity ,
And Moses went down from the mount unto the people , and sanctified the people ; and they washed their clothes .
And it came to pass on a certain day , as he was teaching , that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by , which were come out of every town of Galilee , and Judaea , and Jerusalem : and the power of the Lord was present to heal them .
And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river ; and her maidens walked along by the river ' s side ; and when she saw the ark among the flags , she sent her maid to fetch it .
There were giants in the earth in those days ; and also after that , when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men , and they bare children to them , the same became mighty men which were of old , men of renown .
And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth , and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually .
And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years , until they came to a land inhabited ; they did eat manna , until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan .
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so , they said , The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us : for his hand is sore upon us , and upon Dagon our god .
But he said , Ye are idle , ye are idle : therefore ye say , Let us go and do sacrifice to the Lord .
And it came to pass after seven days , that the waters of the flood were upon the earth .
But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him : and great multitudes came together to hear , and to be healed by him of their infirmities .
And Israel saw that great work which the Lord did upon the Egyptians : and the people feared the Lord , and believed the Lord , and his servant Moses .
 For the Father judgeth no man , but hath committed all judgment unto the Son :
And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests , and an holy nation . These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel .
The Lord shall fight for you , and ye shall hold your peace .
And God said , Let us make man in our image , after our likeness : and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea , and over the fowl of the air , and over the cattle , and over all the earth , and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth .
And Naomi said unto her daughter in law , Blessed be he of the Lord , who hath not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead . And Naomi said unto her , The man is near of kin unto us , one of our next kinsmen .
Then there arose a reasoning among them , which of them should be greatest .
Then said he , Unto what is the kingdom of God like ? and whereunto shall I resemble it ?
Jesus saith unto him , Rise , take up thy bed , and walk .
And he said , Bring it near to me , and I will eat of my son ' s venison , that my soul may bless thee . And he brought it near to him , and he did eat : and he brought him wine , and he drank .
And Joseph said unto his brethren , I am Joseph ; doth my father yet live ? And his brethren could not answer him ; for they were troubled at his presence .
And Moses cried unto the Lord , saying , What shall I do unto this people ? they be almost ready to stone me .
And now , my daughter , fear not ; I will do to thee all that thou requirest : for all the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman .
Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association .
Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad , and rivers of waters in the streets .
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest , detention or exile .
And it came to pass in the time of her travail , that , behold , twins were in her womb .
The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable : but the mouth of the wicked speaketh frowardness .
And if thou refuse to let them go , behold , I will smite all thy borders with frogs :
And Isaac his father said unto him , Who art thou ? And he said , I am thy son , thy firstborn Esau .
And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh ; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head .
And Reuben returned unto the pit ; and , behold , Joseph was not in the pit ; and he rent his clothes .
And the Lord said , Who then is that faithful and wise steward , whom his lord shall make ruler over his household , to give them their portion of meat in due season ?
Come now therefore , and I will send thee unto Pharaoh , that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt .
And straightway his ears were opened , and the string of his tongue was loosed , and he spake plain .
Behold now , this city is near to flee unto , and it is a little one : Oh , let me escape thither , (is it not a little one ? ) and my soul shall live .
And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son . And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison , and to bring it .
He keepeth the paths of judgment , and preserveth the way of his saints .
And Saul ' s son had two men that were captains of bands : the name of the one was Baanah , and the name of the other Rechab , the sons of Rimmon a Beerothite , of the children of Benjamin : (for Beeroth also was reckoned to Benjamin :
Now the sojourning of the children of Israel , who dwelt in Egypt , was four hundred and thirty years .
And when Jesus saw her , he called her to him , and said unto her , Woman , thou art loosed from thine infirmity .
And they said unto Moses , Speak thou with us , and we will hear : but let not God speak with us , lest we die .
And they did eat , and were all filled : and there was taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets .
He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous : he is a buckler to them that walk uprightly .
And the waters returned , and covered the chariots , and the horsemen , and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them ; there remained not so much as one of them .
Wherefore the people did chide with Moses , and said , Give us water that we may drink . And Moses said unto them , Why chide ye with me ? wherefore do ye tempt the Lord ?
Then Naomi her mother in law said unto her , My daughter , shall I not seek rest for thee , that it may be well with thee ?
And Abimelech said unto Isaac , Go from us ; for thou art much mightier than we .
So he that goeth in to his neighbour ' s wife ; whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent .
And they said unto them , The Lord look upon you , and judge ; because ye have made our savour to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh , and in the eyes of his servants , to put a sword in their hand to slay us .
And Jesus answering said unto them , Suppose ye that these Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans , because they suffered such things ?
And Moses said before the Lord , Behold , I am of uncircumcised lips , and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me ?
And , behold , there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot , and subtil of heart .
But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord .
Counsel is mine , and sound wisdom : I am understanding ; I have strength .
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah , the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel . And when the children of Israel heard it , they were afraid of the Philistines .
This month shall be unto you the beginning of months : it shall be the first month of the year to you .
And Moses and Aaron did so , as the Lord commanded ; and he lifted up the rod , and smote the waters that were in the river , in the sight of Pharaoh , and in the sight of his servants ; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood .
 But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear : Fear him , which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell ; yea , I say unto you , Fear him .
And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel , whom the Egyptians keep in bondage ; and I have remembered my covenant .
 And ye will not come to me , that ye might have life .
 Go ye up unto this feast : I go not up yet unto this feast ; for my time is not yet full come .
His brethren therefore said unto him , Depart hence , and go into Judaea , that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest .
And we said unto my lord , The lad cannot leave his father : for if he should leave his father , his father would die .
And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also , neither would he let the people go .
And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights .
And he said , Blessed be thou of the Lord , my daughter : for thou hast shewed more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning , inasmuch as thou followedst not young men , whether poor or rich .
And the king of Egypt said unto them , Wherefore do ye , Moses and Aaron , let the people from their works ? get you unto your burdens .
And the Lord spake unto Moses , saying ,
And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord , when I stretch forth mine hand upon Egypt , and bring out the children of Israel from among them .
Tarry this night , and it shall be in the morning , that if he will perform unto thee the part of a kinsman , well ; let him do the kinsman ' s part : but if he will not do the part of a kinsman to thee , then will I do the part of a kinsman to thee , as the Lord liveth : lie down until the morning .
And be ready against the third day : for the third day the Lord will come down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai .
Jesus answered and said unto them , This is the work of God , that ye believe on him whom he hath sent .
And I will make of thee a great nation , and I will bless thee , and make thy name great ; and thou shalt be a blessing :
 And ye shall know the truth , and the truth shall make you free .
The Lord will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish : but he casteth away the substance of the wicked .
And Onan knew that the seed should not be his ; and it came to pass , when he went in unto his brother ' s wife , that he spilled it on the ground , lest that he should give seed to his brother .
And he said , When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women , and see them upon the stools ; if it be a son , then ye shall kill him : but if it be a daughter , then she shall live .
Saying , Behold , we go up to Jerusalem ; and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests , and unto the scribes ; and they shall condemn him to death , and shall deliver him to the Gentiles :
And have not obeyed the voice of my teachers , nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me !
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights . They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood .
Dan , and Naphtali , Gad , and Asher .
Jesus answered them and said , Verily , verily , I say unto you , Ye seek me , not because ye saw the miracles , but because ye did eat of the loaves , and were filled .
When she was brought forth , she sent to her father in law , saying , By the man , whose these are , am I with child : and she said , Discern , I pray thee , whose are these , the signet , and bracelets , and staff .
And it came to pass , that on the next day , when they were come down from the hill , much people met him .
And he asked them of their welfare , and said , Is your father well , the old man of whom ye spake ? Is he yet alive ?
And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee , and will keep the passover to the Lord , let all his males be circumcised , and then let him come near and keep it ; and he shall be as one that is born in the land : for no uncircumcised person shall eat thereof .
And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted , and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted , and every one that had some white in it , and all the brown among the sheep , and gave them into the hand of his sons .
And Moses went up unto God , and the Lord called unto him out of the mountain , saying , Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob , and tell the children of Israel ;
 And , behold , there are last which shall be first , and there are first which shall be last .
And Lot went out at the door unto them , and shut the door after him ,
And it came to pass after this , that David enquired of the Lord , saying , Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah ? And the Lord said unto him , Go up . And David said , Whither shall I go up ? And he said , Unto Hebron .
But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea ; and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand , and on their left .
And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop , and dip it in the blood that is in the basin , and strike the lintel and the two side posts with the blood that is in the basin ; and none of you shall go out at the door of his house until the morning .
In the third month , when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt , the same day came they into the wilderness of Sinai .
Wash thyself therefore , and anoint thee , and put thy raiment upon thee , and get thee down to the floor : but make not thyself known unto the man , until he shall have done eating and drinking .
And he took six hundred chosen chariots , and all the chariots of Egypt , and captains over every one of them .
 And hath given him authority to execute judgment also , because he is the Son of man .
And he prayed unto the Lord , and said , I pray thee , O Lord , was not this my saying , when I was yet in my country ? Therefore I fled before unto Tarshish : for I knew that thou art a gracious God , and merciful , slow to anger , and of great kindness , and repentest thee of the evil .
And Adah bare Jabal : he was the father of such as dwell in tents , and of such as have cattle .
When Jesus had lifted up himself , and saw none but the woman , he said unto her , Woman , where are those thine accusers ? hath no man condemned thee ?
Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar , that thy nakedness be not discovered thereon .
And he said , This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you : He will take your sons , and appoint them for himself , for his chariots , and to be his horsemen ; and some shall run before his chariots .
Take , I pray thee , my blessing that is brought to thee ; because God hath dealt graciously with me , and because I have enough . And he urged him , and he took it .
 And whosoever of you will be the chiefest , shall be servant of all .
Then Peter began to say unto him , Lo , we have left all , and have followed thee .
 I say unto thee , Arise , and take up thy bed , and go thy way into thine house .
And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years : and he died .
Howbeit he refused to turn aside : wherefore Abner with the hinder end of the spear smote him under the fifth rib , that the spear came out behind him ; and he fell down there , and died in the same place : and it came to pass , that as many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still .
Now Moses in the law commanded us , that such should be stoned : but what sayest thou ?
And immediately the man was made whole , and took up his bed , and walked : and on the same day was the sabbath .
And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen : and it was a very great company .
The people answered and said , Thou hast a devil : who goeth about to kill thee ?
Thou shalt not kill .
For they were departed from Rephidim , and were come to the desert of Sinai , and had pitched in the wilderness ; and there Israel camped before the mount .
And his brethren envied him ; but his father observed the saying .
Our fathers did eat manna in the desert ; as it is written , He gave them bread from heaven to eat .
And Leah also with her children came near , and bowed themselves : and after came Joseph near and Rachel , and they bowed themselves .
And the Beerothites fled to Gittaim , and were sojourners there until this day . )
Philip answered him , Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them , that every one of them may take a little .
And they said , Thy servants are twelve brethren , the sons of one man in the land of Canaan ; and , behold , the youngest is this day with our father , and one is not .
And they come unto him , bringing one sick of the palsy , which was borne of four .
To deliver thee from the strange woman , even from the stranger which flattereth with her words ;
Can one go upon hot coals , and his feet not be burned ?
Provideth her meat in the summer , and gathereth her food in the harvest .
 For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words , of him shall the Son of man be ashamed , when he shall come in his own glory , and in his Father ' s , and of the holy angels .
And in the vine were three branches : and it was as though it budded , and her blossoms shot forth ; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes :
And made him king over Gilead , and over the Ashurites , and over Jezreel , and over Ephraim , and over Benjamin , and over all Israel .
See , for that the Lord hath given you the sabbath , therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of two days ; abide ye every man in his place , let no man go out of his place on the seventh day .
Everyone has the right to leave any country , including his own , and to return to his country .
And he said unto them , Ye are from beneath ; I am from above : ye are of this world ; I am not of this world .
And God looked upon the children of Israel , and God had respect unto them .
And Joseph said unto them the third day , This do , and live ; for I fear God :
When Jesus then lifted up his eyes , and saw a great company come unto him , he saith unto Philip , Whence shall we buy bread , that these may eat ?
And Moses came and called for the elders of the people , and laid before their faces all these words which the Lord commanded him .
And God saw the light , that it was good : and God divided the light from the darkness .
And Bilhah conceived , and bare Jacob a son .
And Judah acknowledged them , and said , She hath been more righteous than I ; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son . And he knew her again no more .
Article 26
For the Lord giveth wisdom : out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding .
And Judah said , Let her take it to her , lest we be shamed : behold , I sent this kid , and thou hast not found her .
When thou goest , it shall lead thee ; when thou sleepest , it shall keep thee ; and when thou awakest , it shall talk with thee .
Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt , saying , Let us alone , that we may serve the Egyptians ? For it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians , than that we should die in the wilderness .
Thou shalt speak all that I command thee : and Aaron thy brother shall speak unto Pharaoh , that he send the children of Israel out of his land .
Unto the woman he said , I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception ; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children ; and thy desire shall be to thy husband , and he shall rule over thee .
And when she came to her mother in law , she said , Who art thou , my daughter ? And she told her all that the man had done to her .
Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out of the fish ' s belly ,
And many charged him that he should hold his peace : but he cried the more a great deal , Thou Son of David , have mercy on me .
 Or those eighteen , upon whom the tower in Siloam fell , and slew them , think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem ?
I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry , with carved works , with fine linen of Egypt .
And Jesus , perceiving the thought of their heart , took a child , and set him by him ,
 There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth , when ye shall see Abraham , and Isaac , and Jacob , and all the prophets , in the kingdom of God , and you yourselves thrust out .
 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it : but whosoever will lose his life for my sake , the same shall save it .
And the children of Israel said unto them , Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt , when we sat by the flesh pots , and when we did eat bread to the full ; for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness , to kill this whole assembly with hunger .
And Pharaoh said , I will let you go , that ye may sacrifice to the Lord your God in the wilderness ; only ye shall not go very far away : entreat for me .
And it came to pass at midnight , that the man was afraid , and turned himself : and , behold , a woman lay at his feet .
Now therefore , I pray thee , let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord ; and let the lad go up with his brethren .
And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah : and she sent and called Jacob her younger son , and said unto him , Behold , thy brother Esau , as touching thee , doth comfort himself , purposing to kill thee .
Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel , and said unto them , Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families , and kill the passover .
There is a lad here , which hath five barley loaves , and two small fishes : but what are they among so many ?
Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reap , and go thou after them : have I not charged the young men that they shall not touch thee ? and when thou art athirst , go unto the vessels , and drink of that which the young men have drawn .
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together , and came to Samuel unto Ramah ,
And Moses said unto his father in law , Because the people come unto me to enquire of God :
So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines , and said , Send away the ark of the God of Israel , and let it go again to his own place , that it slay us not , and our people : for there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city ; the hand of God was very heavy there .
Then said they unto him , Who art thou ? And Jesus saith unto them , Even the same that I said unto you from the beginning .
And it came to pass , as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob , and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father , that Esau his brother came in from his hunting .
Let not mercy and truth forsake thee : bind them about thy neck ; write them upon the table of thine heart :
And he said , To morrow . And he said , Be it according to thy word : that thou mayest know that there is none like unto the Lord our God .
And God said , Let the earth bring forth grass , the herb yielding seed , and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind , whose seed is in itself , upon the earth : and it was so .
By his knowledge the depths are broken up , and the clouds drop down the dew .
This they said , tempting him , that they might have to accuse him . But Jesus stooped down , and with his finger wrote on the ground , as though he heard them not .
So shall thy barns be filled with plenty , and thy presses shall burst out with new wine .
Then Abner looked behind him , and said , Art thou Asahel ? And he answered , I am .
Remove thy way far from her , and come not nigh the door of her house :
And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath .
One of his disciples , Andrew , Simon Peter ' s brother , saith unto him ,
I don't understand
So God created man in his own image , in the image of God created he him ; male and female created he them .
And the Lord God prepared a gourd , and made it to come up over Jonah , that it might be a shadow over his head , to deliver him from his grief . So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd .
 And he answering said unto him , Lord , let it alone this year also , till I shall dig about it , and dung it :
 For laying aside the commandment of God , ye hold the tradition of men , as the washing of pots and cups : and many other such like things ye do .
Her ways are ways of pleasantness , and all her paths are peace .
Then Eli called Samuel , and said , Samuel , my son . And he answered , Here am I .
And when they of Ashdod arose early on the morrow , behold , Dagon was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord . And they took Dagon , and set him in his place again .
And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years , and begat a son :
Then they sought to take him : but no man laid hands on him , because his hour was not yet come .
So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father in law , and did all that he had said .
And God saw every thing that he had made , and , behold , it was very good . And the evening and the morning were the sixth day .
Before the mountains were settled , before the hills was I brought forth :
And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt , and rested in all the coasts of Egypt : very grievous were they ; before them there were no such locusts as they , neither after them shall be such .
 Why do ye not understand my speech ? even because ye cannot hear my word .
Of clean beasts , and of beasts that are not clean , and of fowls , and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth ,
Now therefore be not grieved , nor angry with yourselves , that ye sold me hither : for God did send me before you to preserve life .
And it came to pass , when they had brought them forth abroad , that he said , Escape for thy life ; look not behind thee , neither stay thou in all the plain ; escape to the mountain , lest thou be consumed .
And they did so ; for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod , and smote the dust of the earth , and it became lice in man , and in beast ; all the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land of Egypt .
And the Lord said unto Cain , Where is Abel thy brother ? And he said , I know not : Am I my brother ' s keeper ?
And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God , and to heal the sick .
And said unto them that sold doves , Take these things hence ; make not my Father ' s house an house of merchandise .
And when he had said these things , all his adversaries were ashamed : and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him .
And Seth lived an hundred and five years , and begat Enos :
And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac ' s herdmen , saying , The water is ours : and he called the name of the well Esek ; because they strove with him .
Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity , and supplemented , if necessary , by other means of social protection .
So Joshua did as Moses had said to him , and fought with Amalek : and Moses , Aaron , and Hur went up to the top of the hill .
And he said to them all , If any man will come after me , let him deny himself , and take up his cross daily , and follow me .
And the Lord spake unto the fish , and it vomited out Jonah upon the dry land .
 Howbeit in vain do they worship me , teaching for doctrines the commandments of men .
And it shall be , when he lieth down , that thou shalt mark the place where he shall lie , and thou shalt go in , and uncover his feet , and lay thee down ; and he will tell thee what thou shalt do .
Also regard not your stuff ; for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours .
But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God : in it thou shalt not do any work , thou , nor thy son , nor thy daughter , thy manservant , nor thy maidservant , nor thy cattle , nor thy stranger that is within thy gates :
Article 3
And there was no bread in all the land ; for the famine was very sore , so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine .
And Joseph ' s ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt .
Remember the sabbath day , to keep it holy .
He spake also this parable ; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard ; and he came and sought fruit thereon , and found none .
And it came to pass at that time , that Judah went down from his brethren , and turned in to a certain Adullamite , whose name was Hirah .
For yet seven days , and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights ; and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth .
And Jesus answered and said , Verily I say unto you , There is no man that hath left house , or brethren , or sisters , or father , or mother , or wife , or children , or lands , for my sake , and the gospel ' s ,
Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State , group or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein .
And Abel , he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof . And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering :
Then Jesus beholding him loved him , and said unto him , One thing thou lackest : go thy way , sell whatsoever thou hast , and give to the poor , and thou shalt have treasure in heaven : and come , take up the cross , and follow me .
And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God ; and they stood at the nether part of the mount .
Then there arose and went over by number twelve of Benjamin , which pertained to Ish–bosheth the son of Saul , and twelve of the servants of David .
And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel : but they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit , and for cruel bondage .
And Moses said unto Joshua , Choose us out men , and go out , fight with Amalek : to morrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in mine hand .
And the Lord said unto him , Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain , vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold . And the Lord set a mark upon Cain , lest any finding him should kill him .
And he charged them that they should tell no man : but the more he charged them , so much the more a great deal they published it ;
Do this now , my son , and deliver thyself , when thou art come into the hand of thy friend ; go , humble thyself , and make sure thy friend .
And they told him all the words of Joseph , which he had said unto them : and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him , the spirit of Jacob their father revived :
Then those men , when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did , said , This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world .
And it came to pass , when the sun did arise , that God prepared a vehement east wind ; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah , that he fainted , and wished in himself to die , and said , It is better for me to die than to live .
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state .
 I am one that bear witness of myself , and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me .
But Jesus said unto them , Ye know not what ye ask : can ye drink of the cup that I drink of ? and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with ?
 Judge not according to the appearance , but judge righteous judgment .
And Moses went out to meet his father in law , and did obeisance , and kissed him ; and they asked each other of their welfare ; and they came into the tent .
All in whose nostrils was the breath of life , of all that was in the dry land , died .
And the man waxed great , and went forward , and grew until he became very great :
And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife : and Jacob went in unto her .
And his father Isaac said unto him , Come near now , and kiss me , my son .
And David sent messengers unto the men of Jabesh–gilead , and said unto them , Blessed be ye of the Lord , that ye have shewed this kindness unto your lord , even unto Saul , and have buried him .
 And they shall mock him , and shall scourge him , and shall spit upon him , and shall kill him : and the third day he shall rise again .
Let them be only thine own , and not strangers ' with thee .
And the Lord God said unto the serpent , Because thou hast done this , thou art cursed above all cattle , and above every beast of the field ; upon thy belly shalt thou go , and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life :
And Abner said to Joab , Let the young men now arise , and play before us . And Joab said , Let them arise .
 Nevertheless I must walk to day , and to morrow , and the day following : for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem .
And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten , and thou shalt gather it to thee ; and it shall be for food for thee , and for them .
And Cainan lived seventy years , and begat Mahalaleel :
And the Lord did so ; and there came a grievous swarm of flies into the house of Pharaoh , and into his servants ' houses , and into all the land of Egypt : the land was corrupted by reason of the swarm of flies .
 Blessed are those servants , whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching : verily I say unto you , that he shall gird himself , and make them to sit down to meat , and will come forth and serve them .
 But now ye seek to kill me , a man that hath told you the truth , which I have heard of God : this did not Abraham .
 The lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him , and at an hour when he is not aware , and will cut him in sunder , and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers .
And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh ; for the Egyptians sold every man his field , because the famine prevailed over them : so the land became Pharaoh ' s .
And he said unto Moses , I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee , and thy wife , and her two sons with her .
So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom , and apply thine heart to understanding ;
And the Lord God said unto the woman , What is this that thou hast done ? And the woman said , The serpent beguiled me , and I did eat .
And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father ; and he felt him , and said , The voice is Jacob ' s voice , but the hands are the hands of Esau .
When they were filled , he said unto his disciples , Gather up the fragments that remain , that nothing be lost .
And Joseph nourished his father , and his brethren , and all his father ' s household , with bread , according to their families .